Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Revolution By mista, =] |
By: Shubham Jain
(Selected as GST Inspector) REE R. E [=]
Your life, Your hard work, Your Hieeess)
+.
AAO Pienontea Oner-liner By Shubham Sir (RBE) (2016 to 2022)
AAO 2016 (economics)
Q1. Which part of Indian constitution
establishes CAG as an authority? V
Q2. The CAG once appointed has to make
an oath or affirmation before
The President of India
Q3. Who determines the term of office,
salary and allowances, conditions of
service of the chairman and other
members of the Finance Commission of
India
from time to time? The President of India
Q4. What is the requirement of other
members of the finance commission fixed
under the Article 280 of the Constitution
of India apart from the its
chairman? Four
Q5. Which among the following is one of
the three heads grouped as
recommendations of the finance
commission. Union Loan to states
Q6. Decrease of resources implies that
production possibility curve: shifts to left
Q7. Which of the following relation is
INCORRECT between TU and MU?
Decrease in MU implies that TU increases
at an increasing rate.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Q8. Indifference Curve is at the
point of equilibrium. convex
Q9. The two aspects: ((1) Factoral
distribution of Income. {(2) Inter-personal
distribution of Income are parts of which
of the following central problem of an
economy? For whom to produce?
Q10. In which type of economy social
justice is accorded higher priority than
profit maximization? Centrally Planned
Economy
Q11. A situation when demand curve
shifts to the right is described under the
following situation: increase in demand
Q12. What is the total elasticity of
demand, if a fall in own price of a
commodity causes a fall in total
expenditure and a rise in price causes rise
in total expenditure of the commodity?
Less than unitary
Q13. Suppose the demand function for a
commodity is given as Q= 1000 — 10P
where ‘Q’ denotes quantity of demand
and ‘P’ denotes price of the commodity.
The Point Price elasticity of demand at
price Rs 20 will be: — 0.25
Q14. “Supply creates its own demand” is
a . Say’s law
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q15. In the case of Veblen goods,
demand curve will slope: Upwards
Q16. Increase in the price of a competing
product will lead to: decrease in supply
Q17. Es< 1, when positively sloped supply
curve starts from . X-axis
Q18. Price elasticity of supply of a good is
2. By what percentage should its price
rise so that its supply rises by 40 percent?
20
Q19. What will be the effect on
equilibrium price if supply is increased
without any change in demand? Price will
fall
Q20. refers to different possible
quantities of a commodity that the
consumer is ready to buy at different
possible prices of that commodity.
demand
Q21. In case of law of variable
proportions, point of inflexion is where:
TP stops increasing at the increasing rate
and starts increasing at the decreasing
rate.
Q22. Which among the following is/are
the important component(s) of Fixed
Cost? All of these
Q23. Average Fixed Cost Curve is:
Rectangular Hyperbola
Q24. Which of the assumption is NOT
TRUE in relation to isoquant curve? Both
inputs are indivisible.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Q25. Margin of safety is the BEP.
above
Q26. AP is output per unit of
factor. variable
Q27. License fee comes under: fixed cost
Q28. Rising of AVC is due to: diminishing
returns to a factor
Q29. The demand curve of the firm under
perfect competition is: perfectly elastic
Q30. A monopolist charges a price which
is than the marginal cost. greater
Q31. Price control leads to rationing and
black marketing under which forms of
market? Perfect competition
Q32. Why does the firms in long run earn
normal profits under perfect
competition? Freedom of entry and exit
of the firms.
Q33. What does a perfectly elastic
demand curve of a firm reflects under
perfect competition? Zero price control
Q34. If oligopoly firms produces
differentiated products, then itis a
situation of: imperfect oligopoly
Q35. In which form of market, there are
only two firms producing a commodity?
Duopoly
Q36. Indian Railways can be termed as
. Public Monopoly
Q37. Gross National disposable income is
equal to: Net National disposable income
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
+ Current replacement cost
Q38. The process of moving from selfemployment and regular salaried
employment to casual wage work is
known as . casualisation of
workforce
Q39. GDP deflator equals: [(GDP at
current prices)/(GDP at constant prices)]
x 100
Q40. Which industry is also known as
basic industry? Iron and Steel Industry
Q41. In terms of economic system, what
is disinvetment? Privatisation of the
public sector enterprises
Q42. When the number of poor is
estimated as the proportion of people
below the poverty line, it is known as
. Head Count Ratio
Q43. What is Fiscal deficit? It occurs when
a government's total revenue exceeds
the total expenditure excluding
borrowings.
Q44. Which among the following is NOT
an example of Heavy industry? Pottery
and brick making/from clay
Q45. Which among the following is the
oldest economic activity known?
Agriculture
Q46. Which of the following industry is
NOT reserved for the public sector after
New Economic Policy of 1991? Aerospace
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SlI]):
Q47. The trade policy reforms aimed at:
All of these
Q48. Under which Amendment Act of
Indian Constitution GST is introduced?
101
Q49. Who is the chairman of GST
Council? Arun Jaitely
Q50. What is the allocation on defence
budget in the Union Budget of India
(2018-19)? Rs. 2.95 lakh crores
Q51. What is that money which is
accepted as a medium of exchange
because of the trust between the payer
and the payee? Fiduciary money
Q52. Currency deposit ratio equals: Both
and
Q53. Credit multiplier is equal to: 1/CRR
Q54. In 1991, as an immediate measure
to resolve the balance of payments crisis,
the rupee was against foreign
currencies. devalued
Q55. Prime Minister of India has
launched an online platform mygov.nic.in
to engage citizens in the task of
Surajya
Q56. Which organization has launched
the BHIM mobile application? NPCI
Q57. Who will be appointed as the
president of NASSCOM, upon the
completion of R. Chandrashekhar's term
in March 2018? Debjani Ghosh
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q58. Which of the following is the correct
formula for measuring income elasticity
%Change in quantity demanded of demand? — % change in income
Q59. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
Nominal GDP deflator is measured by: Real GDP
100
AAO 2017 (economics)
Q1. Which Committee of Parliament in
India examines the Audit Report of
Comptroller and Auditor General? Public
Accounts Committee
Q2. Which of the following duties is not
performed by the Comptroller and
Auditor General of India? To control the
receipt and issue of public Money
Q3. The Finance Commission
recommends Distribution of financial
resources between the Union & the State
Q4. Under which Article of the
Constitution Finance Commission is
constituted? Article 280
Q5. Which is the constitutional authority
in India to decide the share of the states
from the proceeds of taxes levied and
collected by the Union? Finance
Commission
Q6. When a rational person makes a
choice, the concept of opportunity cost
enters, thus opportunity cost is defined
as the benefit lost in terms of the next
best alternative foregone when a choice
is made
Q7. The three main features of the
capitalist economies are: Prices, Profit
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SlI]):
and Property rights
Q8. Ina centrally planned economy the
factor of production Are owned by the
govt and the welfare of the people is the
prime concern.
Q9. There is no time lag in the production
and consumption of Services
Q10. Which of the following isa reason
for the negative slope of the Production
Possibility Curve. Scarcity at any point of
time due to limited amount of productive
resources
Q11. The law of demand indicates: The
relationship between the price of a
commodity and the quantity demanded
Q12. If the demand for a good is
price-elastic, a fallin its price will lead to
Arise in total demand for the good
Q13. Which of the following is not a
characteristic of Indifference Curves?
They are convex to the origin
Q14. When marginal utility declines and
is positive Total utility increases at a
decreasing rate
Q15. A good is termed as an inferior good
if Its consumption reduces with a rise in
Income
Q16. A consumer increases its demand
for a commodity from 40 to 50 units
when its price falls by 10%. The price
elasticity of demand is -2.5
Q17. Contraction of demand is the result
of Increase in the price of the good
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
consumed.
Q18. Chicken and fish are substitutes. If
the price of chicken increases, the
demand for fish will Increase and the
demand curve for fish will shift
rightwards
Q19. The opportunity cost of a factor of
production is what has to be paid to
retain it in its present use.
Q20. Which one of the following is not a
characteristic of labour as a factor of
production? Labour has high bargaining
power
Q21. Short Run Total Cost Curve can
never be less than Long Run Total Cost
Curve. Always True
Q22. Marginal cost is defined as: the
change in total cost due to one unit
change in output.
Q23. Production function explains the
relationship between initial inputs and
ultimate output
Q?24. In the initial stages of production,
generally the increasing returns to scale
operate because Economies of scale
operate
Q25. If we have constant returns to scale
and we increase the quantity of labour
used per unit of time by 10% but keep the
amount of capital constant, output will
Increase by less than 10%
Q26. In the context of oligopoly, the
kinked demand hypothesis is designed to
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SlI]):
explain Price Rigidity
Q27. Price Discrimination exists when The
same product is sold at different prices to
different buyers
Q28. Which of the following statements
is incorrect? Commodities offered for
sales under perfect competition will be
heterogeneous
Q29. Which of the following statement is
true for a perfectly competitive firm In
the long run all firms inthe market earn
only normal profit
Q30. A decrease in demand with the
supply curve remaining constant leads to
A fall in both equilibrium price and
quantity
Q31. Identify a characteristic of a
monopolistic competitive market from
the following : Heavy costs are incurred
to attract customers
Q32. An increase in output in a perfectly
competitive and constant cost industry
which is in the long run equilibrium, will
come entirely from new firms
Q33. The Ministry of Statistics and
Programme Implementation has revised
the base year of national income
estimation from 2004-05 to 2011-2012
Q34. Trickle Down theory of
development holds that Development
spreads down wards throughout the
economy and in all sectors.
Q35. Liberalisation of trade by the
government means Removal of tariff,
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
subsidies and other restrictions on flow
of goods and services
Q36. The highest share in power
generation in India is of Thermal power
Q37. Which one of the following is not
the consequence of high population
growth in India ? Adverse balance of
payments
Q38. Which one of the following is not
correct about the Saansad Adarsh Gram
Yojana ? Joining every village with a
national highway
Q39. Fiscal deficit means The excess of
total expenditure (capital and revenue)
over the sum of revenue and capital
receipts excluding borrowing
Q40. Which of the following cannot be
termed as an anti-poverty programme/
scheme? MRTP
Q41. The most important source of
capital formation in India has been.
Household savings
Q42. National Income is the same as Net
national product at factor cost
Q43. Disguised unemployment refers to
More persons employed for a job which
less persons can accomplish.
Q44. Consider the following statements
about GST bill of India
1. GST consists of three components such
as central- GST (CGST), State- GST (SGST)
and Local- GST (LGST)
2. CGST & SGST will apply to all
transactions of goods & services
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SlI]):
Which of the above statements are
correct? Only 2
Q45. In the post-reforms period, Foreign
Exchange Regulation Act was replaced by
Foreign Exchange Management Act.
Q46. refers to disposal of public
sector unit's equity in the market.
Disinvestment
Q47. Globalisation is a process of
increasing economic integration in the
world among Countries
Q48. UDAY Stands for Ujwal Discom
Assurance Yojna
Q49. Reserve Bank's Liquidity Adjustment
Facility (LAF) refers to use of Repo and
Reverse Repo
Q50. When too much money chases too
few goods, the resulting inflation is
called. Demand pull inflation
Q51. The effect of increase in Cash
Reserve Ratio will be reduced or nullified
if Bank rate is reduced.
Q52. NABARD's primary role is - To act as
an finance institution
Q53. Open market operations are selling
of securities by RBI
Q54. An enterprise- wise resource
planning (ERP) system integrates the
organization's Computerized subsystems
and may also provide links to external
parties. Identify the advantage of ERP
The re-engineering needed for its
implementation should improve business
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
processes
Q55. The Rural Infrastructure
Development Fund (RIDF) has been
created under. NABARD
Q56. Which of the following is not a
function of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (SEBI) Underwriting new
Capital Issues
Q57. Which of the following are major
components of the Information
Technology Enabled Services (ITES)
industry in India All the options
Q58. Match the following.
Match the following.
Taeatetad a Fea Aris
I. GNPee 1. NDPre + Depreciation
ST THe + AETENT
ll = NNPse 2. NNPyp+ Net factor
Waa tet income from abroad
Va e + Taeer F
felaet (ac) HN 31a
Il NDP ye 3. GNPec + Depreciation
Wate eer Bey + APA
IV. GDPec 4. GDPrc + Net factor
AS rowst income from abroad
Sewer + facet &
fade (ac) we HTT
1-4, 1-3, W-2, IWV-1
Q59. Match the following.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Match the following.
featrhaa ar Fer sisi
Firm Title
wat sarfer
l. HAL 1. Maharatnas
VaVVvSs Aghios
Il. 1IOCL 2. Miniratnas
aTrsaireivet fant
VT. Indian Railway 3. Navratnas
Catering and Ee oa I
Tourism
Corporation Ltd.
aay WaT
areata aa Wcet
TasTst
1-3, 1-1, 1-2
AAO 2018 (economics)
Q.1 The Interim Budget 2019-20 has
pegged the fiscal deficit for the year
2019-20 at % of GDP. 4
Q.2. Which among the following is the
main measuring scale to map the
economic growth of a country? Gross
Domestic Product
Q.3 The define national income as
the value created in the sphere of
material product alone. Marxists
Q.4 Functions of Comptroller and
Auditor-General in the Case of Grants or
Loans given to other Authorities or
Bodies are specified in Section _ of
The Comptroller and Auditor General's
(Duties, Powers and Conditions of
Service) Amendment ACT, 197 15
Q.5____ has defined Economics as the
science of wealth. Adam smith
Q.6In____, India has signed an open sky
agreement with Australia allowing
airlines on either side to offer unlimited
seats to six Indian metro cities and
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
various Australian cities. June 2018
Q.7 The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget
Management (FRBM) Act, 2003 was
enacted by the Parliament in___. August
2003
Q.8 The demand curve normally has a
slope. Negative
Q.9 In Monopoly Market equilibrium, the
trader gets in the long run
(where all factors happen to be variable).
Super Normal Profit
Q.10 The classic economic resources i.e.
land, labour and capital are called as
Factors of production
Q.11 The government of India has
targated revenue deficit for the financial
year 2019-20to be __—s- % of GDP. 3
Q.12 The Oversees the Foreign
Exchange Management Act, 1999.
Reserve Bank of India
Q.13 The Central public sector enterprises
(CPSEs) viz. Indian Oil Corporation and
Steel Authority of India Ltd. have the
statusof —_—_—. Maharatnas
Q.14 According to the economic survey
published in July 2019 by Govt. of India,
GDP is expected to grow at__— % in 2019-
20 due to growth of investment &
consumption Service exports 7
Q.15 The quantity of demand by virtue of
which it changes (increases or decreases)
when ___ changes (decreases or
increases) is called Elasticity of Demand.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Price
Q.16 The MRTP Act was repealed and
replaced by the , with effect from
September 1, 2009 Competition Act
Q.17 The Central Government has
amalgamated three Regional Rural Banks
- Punjab Gramin Bank, Malwa Gramin
Bank and Sutlej Gramin Bank into a single
RRB with effect from. 1st January 2019
Q.18 Which of the following factor has a
direct relationship with supply, other
things remaining constant? Material price
Q.19 Under the cross elasticity of
demand between the product of the firm
and that of other commodity in the
market is zero. Monopoly
Q.20 If the proportionate increase in the
output is less than proportionate increase
in the inputs it is said to be returns.
Diminishing
Q.21 An important financial reform has
been the reduction in Statutory Liquidity
Ratio (SLR)which was as high as 39 per
cent of deposits with the banks has been
reduced to per cent as on August,
2019. 18.75
Q.22 disequilibrium occur because
of long-run and deep seated changes in
an economy as it moves from one stage
of growth to another. Secular
Q.23 The Long-Run Analysis of Production
is done under which one of the following
law of Production? Law of Returns to
Scale
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q.24 Supply is said to be when a
given percentage change in price leads to
a larger change in quantity supplied.
Elastic
Q.25 The is/are constituted by the
President under article 280 of the
Constitution, mainly to give its
recommendations on distribution of tax
revenues between the Union and the
States and amongst the States
themselves. Finance Commission
Q.26 Accordingto _—sttheory,a
consumer will continue to buy such
products that will deliver him the most
utility or maximum satisfaction at
relative prices. Marginal Utility
Q.27 When even a negligible fall in the
price of the commodity leads to an
infinite extension in the demand for it, it
iscalled _. Infinite elastic demand
Q.28 products have a zero cross
elasticity. Unrelated
Q.29 have an income elasticity of
demand of between 0 and +(1) Normal
goods
Q.30 refers to the willingness and
ability of consumers to purchase a given
quantity of a good or service at a given
point in time or over a period in time.
Demand
Q.31 "What to produce?" is a basic
problem faced by an economy under
which of the following central problem?
Allocation of resources
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Q.32 In India, the first Metro Rail service
was inaugurated on 24th October 1984 in
. Kolkata
Q.33 is the portal which assists
the corporate sectors in India with regard
to the filing of various compliances in a
seamless and transparent manner. MCA
21
Q.34 Article of the Constitutional
Provisions of Comptroller & Auditor
General of India relates to Audit Reports.
151
Q.35 For the first time in the history of
Indian planning there was an attempt to
move beyond empowerment and
recognize women as agents of sustained
socio-economic growth and change, in
the___ Five Year Plan. Eleventh
Q.36 was the first payments bank
to start its commercial operation in
November 2016 on a pilot basis. Airtel
Payments Bank
Q.37 Which one of the following is a
primary function of commercial banks?
Accepting deposits and providing loans
Q.38 Which one of the following is a
function of Finance Commission of India?
Division/Distribution of the net tax
proceeds between the Centre and the
states, and the allocation of the same
between states.
Q.39 unemployment attributable
to the time required to match production
activities with qualified resources.
Frictional
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q.40 In the short run, the monopolist
should make sure that the price should
not go below . Average Variable
Cost
Q.41 According to method of
measuring national income, the national
income consists of measuring the output
of all producers and to deduct from this
total the intermediate purchases. Product
Q.42 While measuring the National
Income, in order to avoid double
counting of value of goods in computing
GDP, the Final Goods Approach and the
____ is used. Value Added Method
Q.43 Which one of the following is an
element of capital account in the Balance
of Payments? Foreign direct investments
Q.44 The is vested with the
responsibility of conducting monetary
policy of India. Reserve Bank of India
(RBI)
Q.45 In 2005, a expert group was
constituted by the Planning Commission
to review methodology for poverty
estimation. It was chaired by ‘
Suresh Tendulkar
Q.46 The law of ___ states that, other
things remaining the same, the quantity
supplied of a commodity is directly or
positively related to its price. Supply
Q.47 The problem of choice arises on
account of the pressure of three
interrelated facts, viz, human wants are
unlimited, means required to satisfy
these wants are limited and
Means are capable of being put to
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
alternative uses.
Q.48 Goods whose demand varies
inversely with income are called
goods. Inferior
Q.49 The decades are referred to as
the period of steady population growth in
India. 1921-1951
Q.50 Find out the best possible option
which describes the formula to obtain
Gross National Product. GDP + Trade
Balances Abroad + Interest of External
Loans + Private Remittances
Q.51The __. is.a hypothetical
representation of the amount of two
different goods that can be obtained by
shifting resources from the production of
one, to the production of the other.
Production possibility curve
Q.52 is a kind of
unemployment in which there are people
who are visibly employed but are actually
unemployed or not utilizing their proper
skills to its maximum level. Structural
Unemployment
Q.53 Which one of the following is not a
type of Economic Infrastructure? Housing
Q.54 As per the 2018-19 data published
by the ministry of statistics & Program
Implementation, the share of agriculture
& allied sector is % to the Gross
Value Added in India. 15.87
Q.55 may be defined as a market
situation in which market price is largely
determined by the forces of total demand
and total supply in the market. Perfect
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Competition
Q.56 Indifference curve theory states
that: Consumers form preferences for
some combination of products over
others
Q.57 The curve of production possibility
is concave in nature because of
Marginal rate of transformation
AAO (Economics) 2019
Q.1 Which of the following indicators is NOT a
part of the Medium-Term Fiscal Policy under the
Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management
Act, 2003? Trade deficit as a percentage of GDP
Q.2 Marginal product of labour first rises and
then starts falling. This is due to: the law of
variable proportions
Q.3 What causes the shape of the indifference
curves to be convex to the origin for two goods
X and Y? :- Diminishing marginal rate of
substitution
Q.4 Income elasticity of demand for luxury
goods is usually . greater than one
Q.5 In consumer behavior theory of economics,
the equilibrium is defined as the point of
tangency of the: indifference curve and budget
line
Q.6 The major source of electricity generated in
India is from . thermal power
Q.7 A monopolist maximises profit at the level
where: MR = MC
Q.8 Net national product at market prices +
Other current transfers from the rest of the
world = ? National disposable income
Q.9 RBI Government Securities through auctions
conducted on the electronic platform
called . e-Kuber
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SlI]):
Q.58 Because of price rigidity, firms
under oligopoly face a demand
curve. Kinked
Q.59 Macro economics is not a study of
consumer surplus
Q.60 The laws of describe the
technically possible ways of increasing
the level of output. Production
Q.10 Increase in the proceeds from the sale of
public sector undertakings results in a/an:
decrease in fiscal deficit
Q.11 Supply curve of a normal good is a plot
between: quantity supplied and price
Q.12 Which of the following is NOT a
characteristic of monopolistic competition?
Entry is restricted
Q.13 In the Budget speech, delivered on 1
February 2020, the Finance Minister used the
deviation allowed in the FRBM Act of 0.5
percentage points in both 2019-2020 and 2020-
2021, on account of: structural reforms in the
economy
Q.14 For the period 2014-2016, the health
expenditure, as a percentage of GDP, was the
maximum for: USA
Q.15 A horizontal demand curve (parallel to the
x-axis) indicates price elasticity of
demand. infinite
Q.16 Which of the following is NOT a part of the
trade and investment policy reforms initiated
under the New Economic Policy reforms in
1991? Imposing high tariffs
Q.17 Reduction in tax rate in the economy is an
example of . expansionary fiscal policy
Q.18 Which of the following factors of
production brings together all the other factors
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
of production? Enterprise
Q.19 Before the year , India was in the first
stage of demographic transition. 1921
Q.20 The Comptroller and Auditor-General shall
have the authority to audit and report on the
accounts of stores and stock kept in any office of
department of the Union or of a State under
Section of the Comptroller and AuditorGeneral’s (Duties, Powers and Conditions of
Service) Amendment Act, 197(A) :- 17
Q.21 Article states that the
Comptroller and Auditor-General shall not be
eligible for further office either under the
Government of India or under the Government
of any State after he has ceased to hold his
office. :- 148
Q.22 Ina economy, all important
economic activities are determined by the
government. centrally planned
Q.23 Which of the following statements is true
with respect to the law of demand? Demand
curve of a normal good is usually negatively
sloped.
Q.24 The 14" Finance Commission did NOT
recommend grants to states for _—_... internal
security and defence
Q.25 Price taking behavior — is a key
characteristic of which market form? Perfect
competition
Q.26 Any point below the concave production
possibility curve means which of the following?
[a] Underutilisation of resources
[b] Wastage of resources
Either [a] or [b] or both
Q.27 Elasticity of Demand is defined as:
percentage change in quantity demanded /
percentage change in price
Q.28 The recommendations of 15‘ Finance
Commission on the revenue distribution
consider: population data of 2011
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Q.29 Imposition of price _—=—/§_ belowthe
equilibrium price leads to excess
ceiling; demand
Q.30 Which of the following is NOT the primary
function of a commercial bank? Purchasing and
selling of securities
Q.31 Which of the following statements is
INCORRECT in the context of the Economic
Reforms of 1991? Liberalisation, Privatisation
and Globalisation fall under the structural
measures and not stabilization.
Q.32 Which of the following is the dependent
variable in the supply function? Quantity to be
supplied
Q.33 The full form of the self-employment
programme REGP is __. Rural Employment
Generation Progamme
Q.34 The production function Q = 5L + 2K, where
Q = output, L = labour, K = capital, indicates:
constant returns to scale
Q.35 In 1991, India approached the and
received __as loan to manage the
economic crisis. :- International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development; $7 billion
Q.36 Which of the following is NOT a component
of the Invisibles in the Balance of Payment? :-
Merchandise
Q.37 As of August 2020, all of the following
industries are reserved for the public sector,
EXCEPT one. Identify it. :- Aerospace
Q.38 Which of the following statement is FALSE
about India prior to 1947? Infant mortality rate
was low
Q.39 The Montreal Protocol is associated with
the problem of _ __. ozone depletion
Q.40 Which of the following is one of the central
problems of an economy? What to produce?
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q.41 Which of the following is NOT a part of the
Indian System of Medicine (ISM)? Keto Diet
Q.42 A/An __ in input prices is expected
to shift the supply curve of the firm to the
. increase; left
Q.43 Which of the following is NOT a criteria
used to identify ‘RRBs in Focus’? Priority sector
lending of 75%
Q.44 For two independent goods, cross price
elasticity should be . zero
Q.45 Which of the following is NOT a method of
measurement of national income? Consumption
method
Q.46 Which of the following is NOT an explicit
and direct objective of the monetary policy?
Reducing inequality
Q.47 As per the basic demand function, the
independent variable is: price
Q.48 Errors and omissions to the extent of
of the total trade transactions is
considered normal as per the convention
(BPMA) :- 4%
Q.49 Economic is based on value
judgement — ‘what should be’ or ‘what ought to
be’. :- Normative
Q.50 Which of the following is/are constant
along a negatively sloped demand curve? :-
Consumer preferences
Q.51 The _. curve is downward sloping for
a typical firm. :-.average fixed cost
Q.52 The Sen index is a tool for the
measurement of: poverty
Q.53 As per the Reserve Bank of India Guidelines
for Payments Bank, issued on 27 November
2014, payment banks CANNOT . issue
credit cards
Q.54 The plot between two goods in an
economy for the given resources and technology
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
is called _ _. production possibility
curve
Q.55 ____was the reform in agriculture
post-independence that helped in reducing the
concentration of land in few hands. Land ceiling
reform
Q.56 Based on the categorization of poverty, the
‘always poor’ are categorised as: Chronic Poor
Q.57 Which of the following pertains to the
‘microeconomics’ branch of economics? Study of
the behavior of individual economic agents
Q.58 Net National Income is defined as:- net
national product at market price less less net
indirect taxes
Q.59 Which of the following macro variables is
considered as an indicator for economic growth
in India? GDP growth rate
Q.60 The shape of the supply curve with
constant and zero elasticity pf supply would be:
vertical (parallel to the y-axis)
AAO (Economics) 2020
Q1. In which of the following cases will price
elasticity of demand be relatively less elastic?
Goods on which consumers spend a small
proportion of their income
Q2. in a market occurs when a small
number of firms produce a
commodity. Oligopoly, homogeneous
Q3. Price elasticity of demand measures the
extent to which quantity demanded of a
commodity changes in response to change in:
own price only
Q4. The real GDP growth of the Indian economy
is impacted negatively by which of the
following?
(1) Rise in inflation
(2) Low domestic manufacturing activity
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
(3) Increased government spending on
infrastructure
Only 1, 2
Qs. was launched by the Prime
Minister of India in June 2015 with the focus to
establish infrastructure that could ensure
adequate robust sewage networks and water
supply for urban transformation by
implementing urban revival projects. :- Atal
Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban
Transformation
Q6. The Swarna Jayanti Shahari Rozgar Yojana
was replaced by on 23 September
2013. Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National
Urban Livelihoods Mission
Q7. Which of the following statements is true?
Total Product Curve is positively sloped.
Q8. Which of the following statements is
correct? Balance of trade is a part of balance of
payment.
Qs. is an umbrella organisation for
operating retail payments and settlement
systems in India, an initiative of Reserve Bank of
India (RBI) and Indian Bank's Association (IBA)
under the provisions of the Payment and
Settlement Systems Act, 2007. :- National
Payments Corporation of India
Q10. According to the theory of demographic
transition, a country (underdeveloped and
technologically backward) passes through three
stages. Which of the following options is the first
stage of this theory? :- Both birth rate and death
rate are high
Q11. Which of the following is a core concept
studied in microeconomics?
i. Consumer Behaviour
ii. Behaviour of Firms
iii Aggregate Level of Output and Inflation in the
Economy
Only (i) and (ii)
Q12. The supply curve of cars is expected to
shift rightwards with:
i. an increase in the price of cars
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
ii. adecrease in fuel prices
Only (ii)
Q13. The income elasticity of demand is
expected to be for goods.
greater than 1; luxury
Q14. Use of synthetic rubber leads to decline in
the demand for natural rubber and thus
causes unemployment in rubber
plantations.
Structural
Q15. In which of the following years was the
annual plan initiated in India by the Planning
Commission, Government of India? 1966
Qi6. suggested a poverty line of
275 per capita per year. :- The Bombay Plan
(1944)
Q17. The supply curve of a normal
good is sloping. It depicts ___on
the x-axis and_ on the y-axis. :- upward:
quantity supplied: price
downward: price: quantity supplied
Q18. Human wants are___ but the means
to satisfy them are . unlimited: scarce
qQi9. __ _was a policy introduced to
promote equity in Indian agriculture. The
purpose was to. concentration of
land ownership in a few hands. :- Land Ceiling:
reduce
Q20. Under expansionary fiscal policy, the
government: raises spending
Q21. Which of the following is NOT an agency
function of the bank? ATM facilities
Q22. The demand curve gives the quantity
demanded by the consumer at each
Price level
Q23. Which of the following statements is
INCORRECT in the context of demand function?
income of the consumer.
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q24. The demand curve that a firm faces ina
perfectly competitive market is
perfectly sitisa straight line
at the market price. :- elastic: horizontal
Q25. Match the following for the percentage
share of stake held in regional rural banks.
Percentage
Owners/ Shareholders stake
(i) Central government [a] 50%
(ii) State government [b] 35%
(iii) Sponsor bank [c] 15%
i - [a]; ii—(c); iii - [b]
Q26. Which of the following statements is
correct? Payments banks cannot set up
subsidiaries to undertake non-banking financial
services activities.
Q27. Marginal Product is defined as: change in
output per unit change in input
Q28. For a monopolist, profit is maximised at
that level of output where; MR= MC and MC is
rising
Q29. The cross elasticity of demand means
responsiveness of the quantity demanded of a
good to a change in: price of other goods
Q30. The full form of GIFT City, India’s first
International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) is:
Gujarat International Finance Tec-City
Q31. India’s health infrastructure and health
care is a tier system comprising:
(i) Primary level
(ii) Secondary level
(iii) Tertiary level
(i), (ii) and (iii)
Q32. Which of the following is correct? Real
GDP is the NDP at constant price + Depreciation
Q33. Remittances from a relative working
abroad are included:
(i) as transfer payments to individuals
(ii) in national income
Only (i)
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Q34. In case of inferior goods, income elasticity
of demand is . negative
Q35. The Comptroller and Auditor General of
India takes oath as per the form mentioned in
the and the salary is determined as
per the provisions mentioned in the
of the Constitution of India. :- 3rd schedule; 2nd
schedule
Q36. Which of the following is NOT an
assumption of production possibility curve?
Resources do not have alternate uses
Q37. Normative economics does NOT involve:
Facts
Q38. Which of the following is a final source of
energy? Electricity
Q39. Technological progress is expected to shift
the supply curve of a firm to the
Imposition of unit tax is expected to shift he
supply curve of a firm to the . right;
left
Q40. The Method of measuring
national income is also known as the ‘flow of
product’ approach by Proof Samuelson.
Expenditure
Q41. Which of the following statements is
correct in the context of Special Drawing Rights
(SDR)? The SDR was initially defined as
equivalent to 0.888671 grams of fine gold.
Q4?. Which of the following statements is/are
true?
A- In perfect competition, average revenue is
equal to market price.
B - In perfect competition, marginal revenue is
equal to market price.
Both A and B are true
Q43. Q=L+K (where Q is output, Lis labour
and K is capital), depicts a production function
with: Constant Returns to Scale
Q44,. Problem of how to produce is NOT
concermed with: allocation of scarce resources
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q45. Since independence, India has been
a . Mixed economy
Q46. happens when a government
sells only a part of its stake in a public sector
company and retains the majority of it. :-
Disinvestments
Q47. Which of the following is NOT a feature of
indifference curves (for normal goods)? They
always have a constant slope.
Q48. What is constant along an isoquant?
Neither (i) nor (ii)
i, Level of Labour
ii. Level of Capital
Q49, monetary policy is adopted
when it is believed that higher interest rates are
needed, usually to combat inflation or restrain
rapid economic growth. :- Hawkish
Q50. Which of the following statements is
INCORRECT in the context of budget and fiscal
deficit? Primary deficit is defined as fiscal deficit
of the current year plus interest payments on
previous borrowings.
Q51. Which of the following statements is
INCORRECT?
Under liquidity adjustment facility, in a reverse
repo transaction RBI infuses liquidity in the
system.
Q52. As per the 15th Finance Commission final
report, submitted on 9 November 2020, the
Commission has recommended That of
the net proceeds of Union taxes should be
shared with the States. :- 41%
Q53. Aperfectly elastic supply curve means:
Both (i) and (ii)
i. a horizontal supply curve
ii. Price Elasticity of Supply = Infinity
Q54. The 15% Finance Commission has
recommended that for cities with a million plus
population (Million-Plus cities), of
the grants are performance-linked through the
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SlI]):
Million-Plus Cities Challenge Fund (MCF). :- 100%
Q55. As per the CAG (DPC’s) Act, 1971, the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India:
(i) audits all receipts into and expenditure from
the Consolidated Fund of India and of each State
and of each Union Territory, having a Legislative
Assembly
{ii) audits all transactions of the Union and of
the States relating to Contingency Funds, and
Public Accounts
(iii) audits receipts and expenditure of bodies or
authorities substantially financed from Union or
State revenue
{iv) audits accounts of bodies or authorities by
request
(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)
Q56. The Guidotti-Greenspan-IMF rule entails:
countries to hold ‘liquid reserves’ equal to their
short-term foreign liabilities (maturing within a
year)
Q57. When an economy is operating inside the
production possibility curve, it indicates that:
potential output > actual output
Q58. The law of demand holds good when: all
determinants of demand, other than own price
of the commodity, remain constant
Q59. Which of the following statements is
INCORRECT? When exports exceed imports,
there is a trade deficit.
Q60. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget
Management Act, 2003, was assented to
on effect from . 26 August 2003; 5
July 2004
AAO (Economics) 2021
Q1. Which of the following is NOT one
of the recognised systems of medicines
under AYUSH? Allopathy
Q2. Which of the following is true as per
the law of supply?
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
(1) There is a negative relation between
quantity supplied and price
(2) There is a positive relationship
between quantity supplied and factors of
production
Neither 1 nor2
Q3. When the demand curve is a
horizontal straight line, it indicates that
the price elasticity of demandis__..
Infinite
Q4. People who never move above the
poverty line are referred as
Chronic poor
Q5. Which of the following pairs of goods
is/are likely to have a positive cross price
elasticity of demand?
(1) Cars and Petrol
(2) Tea and Coffee
(3) Rice and Air-tickets
Only2
Qé6. Which of the following is/are true at
equilibrium in a perfect competition?
(1) MR = MC
(2) AC = MC =AR= MR
(3) MC is falling
Only 1 and 2
Q7. Which of the statement is TRUE
considering the Central problems of an
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
economy? All human wants cannot be
satisfied.
Q8. Identify the incorrect statement.
Price Ceiling is the minimum price fixed
by the government
Q9. Which of the following statements is
true for a mixed economy? Economic
decisions are driven by the motive of
both profit maximisation and social
welfare.
Q10. When the price ceiling is fixed
below the equilibrium price, it leads to
which of the following?
(1) Replenishment
(2) Excess demand
(3) Black marketing
Both 2 and 3
Q11. Which of the following statements
is INCORRECT about the Finance
Commission? It gives its
recommendations on the distribution of
tax revenues between the Union and the
States only and not among the States.
Q12. Which of the following is NOT the
main type of audit that are conducted by
Comptroller and Auditor General as per
the Regulations on Audit and Accounts
(Amendments) 2020? Electronic audit
Q13. Which of the following is an
INCORRECT match in the context of
economics?
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
(i) Study of an individual firm an industry
- macro economics
(ii) Want satisfying capacity of a good -
utility
(iii) Exchange of apples with eggs - ceteris
paribus
Only (i) and (iii)
Q14. Which of the following grants are
provided from the center's resources
over the 2021-26 period?
(i) Grants to local bodies
(ii) Disaster risk management funds
(iii) Sector specific grants
(iv) Revenue deficit grants
All of i, ii, iii and iv
Q15. Which of the following statements
is true? When the total product is
maximum, the marginal product is zero.
Q16. Which of the following statements
is/are true?
(1) Outsourcing of services is an outcome
of globalisation.
(2) Privatisation implies supremacy of
social interest over self interest.
Only 1
Q17. Which of the following pairs is
INCORRECT considering the constitutional
provisions of the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India? Article 146 — Form of
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Accounts of the Union and of the States
Q18. Marginal Rate of Transformation is
the slope of Production Possibility
Curve
Q19. Which branch of economics deals
with the study of the economic activities
of individual units? Micro-economics
Q20. In 1991, under the external sector
reforms, Indian rupee . Devalued
Q21. The National Rural Livelihood
Mission, a measure adopted by the
Government to alleviate poverty, is also
known as . Aajeevika
Q22. Which of the following is NOT a
model of e- governance as proposed by
Prof. Dr. Arie Halachmi? The Common
Minimum Model
Q23. was the first Development
Financial Institution of India set up to
propel economic growth through
development of infrastructure and
industry in . IFCI; 1948
Q24. Which of the following is/are
included while calculating the national
income using the income method?
(1) Wages and salaries in cash
(2) Employers’ contribution to social
security
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Both 1 and 2
Q25. What is constant along an isoquant?
Level of output
Q26. Which of the following is
INCORRECT for perfectly competitive
markets? Firms make zero profits
Q27. Which of the following is true for a
normal good when there is a decrease in
consumer income? The demand curve
shifts to the left
Q28. A perfectly elastic demand curve is:
Parallel to the x-axis
Q29. Jammu and Kashmir FRBM Act, 2006
has been passed as per the
recommendation of 12* finance
commission
Q30. What is constant along an
indifference curve?
(1) Level of Utility
(2) Level of Output
(3) Level of Price
Only 1
Q31. Which of the following statements
is FALSE? Liberalisation is the same as
laissez-faire.
Q32. Which of the following leads to an
outward shift in the supply curve?
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Improvement in technology
Q33. During the first stage of a total
product curve, the total product is
Increasing
Q34. Which of the following activities can
be undertaken by a payment bank in
India, as per RBI guidelines?
(i) Acceptance of demand deposits
(ii) Acceptance of time deposits
(iii) Issue of debit cards
(iv) Issue credit cards
Only (i) and (iii)
Q35. The production possibility curve is a
plot between: quantity of two goods with
the given resources and the technology
required to produce both goods
Q36. For normal goods, the demand
curve has a/an slope. Negative
Q37. was an important growth strategy
adopted by India prior to 1991. Import
substitution
Q38. Balance of Trade is measured as: the
difference between export and import of
goods
Q39. Identify the correct pair of social
infrastructure in an economy. Education,
Health
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q40. Which of the given options is
INCORRECT in the context of fiscal
deficit? Fiscal Deficit = Total Receipts +
Revenue Receipts — Repayment of Loans
+ Sale of Assets
Q41. In the context of India’s
demographic transition, which year is
known as the ‘Year of the Great Divide’?
1921
Q42. Which of the following statements
is true?
(1) The demand curve is a horizontal
straight line in perfect competition
(2) Monopoly makes super-normal profits
with barriers to entry
Both 1 and 2
Q43. Which of the following statement is
the objective(s) of setting up of Regional
rural banks?
(i) development of agriculture, trade and
other productive activities in rural area
(ii) provide credit and other facilities to
the small and marginal farmers and small
entrepreneurs.
Both (i) and*{ii)
Q44. Which of the following is/are
function(s) of a commercial bank?
(1) Accepting deposits
(2) Giving loans
(3) Payments and settlements
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
All 1,2 and 3
Q45. Market Stabilisation Scheme (MSS)
was launched by the RBI in . April
2004
Q46. The marginal cost curve is Ushaped
Q47. The foreign capital investment in
India on the eve of independence
concentrated on the following sectors of
the economy
(i) railways
(ii) tea and coffee
(iii) coal and gold mining
All of (i), (ii) and (iii)
Q48. Delicensing means abolishing the
requirement of an industrial license to
(i) set up a new unit
(ii) substantially expand an existing unit
(iii) change the location of an existing unit
(iv) change the product mix of an existing
unit
All of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv)
Q49. Which of the following is NOT a
correct statement in the context of
National income? net factor income from
abroad has to be added to gross domestic
product at market price for getting the
national income
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q50. Which of the following is/are
constant along a demand curve?
(1) Income of the consumers
(2) Price of related goods
Both 1 and 2
Q51. For the growth of the Indian
economy, which among the following
should NOT be encouraged? Promotion
of imports
Q52. Which of the following is the best
indicator of an economy’s total
borrowings? Fiscal deficit
Q53. National Sample Survey
Organisation (NSSO) provides estimates
of magnitude of unemployment on the
basis of different concepts. Which of the
following is such a concept?
(i) Usual Status Unemployment
(ii) Current Weekly Status Unemployment
(iii) Current Daily Status Unemployment
All of (i), (ii) and (iii)
Q54. Marginal utility to a consumer is
when the total utility is maximum. Zero
Q55. Which of the following is true for
income elasticity of demand?
(1) It measures the responsiveness of
quantity demanded of a good with
respect to consumers’ income
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
(2) Itis calculated by dividing percentage
change in quantity demanded by
percentage change in consumer income
Both 1 and 2
Q56. What is the likely elasticity of supply
when the supply curve is a straight line,
vertical to the x-axis? Zero
Q57. Which of the following are features
of India’s Green Revolution from the mid1960s to the mid-1980?
(1) Increase in crop productivity
(2) Rise in acreage
(3) Shift from commercial farming to
subsistence farming
Only 1 and 2
Q58. Which of the following given
options would result in increase in gross
external debt, ceteris paribus? Official
reserve increases
Q59. A wholly owned subsidiary of the
Reserve Bank is responsible for the
production of bank notes and manages 2
presses, one each in Mysore and Salboni
respectively. What is the name of the
subsidiary? BRBNMPL
Q60. may be defined as a situation
in which the poor are unable to
accumulate resources or earn enough to
move out of the vicious cycle of poverty.
Structural poverty
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
SSC CGL 2022 Tier-2 (Economics & Governance)
Q1. The law of variable proportions was
developed by
Ans: Alfred Marshal
Q2. is an official lowering of the
value of a country’s currency in relation
to other currencies.
Ans: Devaluation
Q3. In relation to the law of demand,
which of the following statements is/are
correct?
Statement 1: It explains the functional
relationship between price and quantity
demanded.
Statement 2: According to the law of
demand when all other things remain
constant, if the price rises, demand is
decreased.
Ans: Both Statements 1 and 2 are correct.
Q4. Demand for a commodity will be said
to be , if the quantity
demanded does not change at all in
response to a given change in price.
Ans: Perfectly inelastic
Q5. Match the following columns.
(i) Demand (1) An activity
directed to satisfy
human wants.
(ii) (2) Those desire which
Consumption involve an effort and
find satisfaction
through that effort.
(iii) Want (3) Quantity of a
commodity bought at
a given price.
Ans: (i)-3, (ii)-1, (iii)-2
Q6. Which of the following is the formula
for calculating per capita income?
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Ans: National Income + Population
Q7. In relation to financial sector reforms,
which of the following statements is/are
correct?
Statement 1: Financial sector includes
financial institutions such as commercial
banks, investment banks, stock exchange
operation and foreign exchange market.
Statement 2: The Financial sector in India
is regulated by the Reserve Bank of India
(RBI).
Ans: Both Statements 1. and 2 are correct.
Q8. In relation to a mixed economy,
which of the following statements is
correct?
Ans: Economic decisions are partly taken
by the State and partly by the private
entrepreneurs.
Q9. Which of the following statements
are correct?
(i) Infrastructure can be divided into two
categories, economic and social.
(ii) Infrastructure associated with energy,
transportation and communication are
regarded as economic infrastructure.
(iii) Infrastructure related to education,
health and housing are regarded as social
infrastructure.
Ans: All of these
Q10. Which of the following points is/are
considered as problems of Indian
agriculture?
(i) Agricultural productivity is very low as
compared to many other countries.
(ii) Most of the Indian Farmers continue
to u se outmoded agricultural techniques.
(iii) Agricultural marketing system in India
is highly unorganised.
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Ans: All of these
Qii1. economics studies how
individuals make their choices.
Ans: Micro
Q12. Which of the following are regarded
as objective of a fiscal policy?
(i) Economic growth
(ii) Economic Stabilisation
(iii) Full employment
(iv) Balance of payment equilibrium
(v) Social justice or equality in the
distribution of income and wealth
Ans: All of these
Q13. Read the given statements and
select the most appropriate option.
(i) Total Product — it refers to the total
output of the firm per period of time.
(ii) Average product is total product
divided by the number of units of the
variable factor.
Ans: Both Statements are true.
Q14. Which of the following Articles
broadly deals with the Duties and Powers
of the Comptroller and Auditor-General
of India?
Ans: 149
Q15. Where there are a few firms or few
produces or few sellers, it is said to be
a/an market.
Ans: Oligopoly
Q16. Which of the following is NOT
considered as a feature of oligopoly
market?
(a) It is in the oligopoly that we can see
the highest expenditure on selling costs.
(b) In the Oligopoly market, the decisions
of every producer affect other producers.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
(c) A single firm produces the commodity
in the market.
(d) Usually, in this market, firms will not
change the price. They follow a rigid
price.
Ans: c
Q17. In India with respect to reform
policies initiated in 1991, regulatory
mechanisms were enforced in which of
the following ways?
1. Industrial licensing under which every
entrepreneur had to get permission from
government officials to start a firm, close
a firm or decide the amount of goods that
could be produced.
2. Private sector was not allowed in many
industries.
3. Some goods could be produced only in
small-scale industries.
Ans: All of these
Q18. The Comptroller and AuditorGeneral shall be responsible for which of
the following?
Statement-1: (clause a) For compiling the
accounts of the Union and of each State
from the initial and subsidiary accounts
rendered to the audit and accounts
offices under his control by treasuries,
offices or departments responsible for
the keeping of such accounts.
Statement-2: (clause b) For keeping such
accounts in relation to any of the matters
specified in clause [a] as may be
necessary.
Ans: Both Statements are correct.
Q19. Read the given statements and
select the most appropriate option.
(i) Goods and Services Tax was
introduced in India on July 11, 2017.
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
(ii) Goods and Services Tax was
introduced in India on July 10, 2017.
Ans: Statement (i) is false and Statement
(ii) is true.
Q20. The Fifteenth Finance Commission
was constituted by the President on
to make recommendations for
the period .
Ans: 27 November 2017; 2020-25
Q21. The Production Possibility Curve is
also called which of the following?
(i) Production Possibility Frontier
(ii) Production Possibility Boundary
(iii) Production Transformation Curve
Ans: All of these
Q22. With respect to the deductive
method of economic study, which of the
following statements is INCORRECT?
(a) This method is also known as the
historical method or statistical method.
(b) Classical economists followed the
deductive method.
(c) In this method, the laws or theories
are prepared on the basis of fundamental
assumptions.
(d) In this method, the logic proceeds
from general to particulars.
Ans: a
Q23. Which of the following Statement is
INCORRECT?
(a) Payments banks can issue debit cards.
(b) Payments banks can issue credit
cards.
(c) Payments banks cannot accept time
deposits.
(d) Payments banks cannot issue loans.
Ans: b
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Q24. In relation to growth of the Indian
economy, which of the following
statements is/are correct?
Statement-1: India has emerged as the
fastest-growing major economy in the
world, and is expected to be one of the
top three economic powers globally over
the next 10-15 years, backed by its robust
democracy and strong partnerships.
Statement-2: The Indian economy has
fully recovered to the pre-pandemic real
GDP level of 2019-20, according to the
provisional estimates of GDP released on
31 May 2022. Real GDP growth in FY
2021-22 stands at 8.7%, which is 1.5%
higher than the real GDP in FY 2019-20.
Ans: Both Statements are correct.
Q25. “Each firm produces a commodity
with small differences. It is due to this
reason that a firm will decide the price
for its product. The demand curve for a
firm will be downwards sloping and more
elastic.”
The above statement is true for a
Ans: Monopolistic Competitions
Q26. Which of the following statements
are correct in relation to functions of
Regional Rural Banks (RRB)?
(i) RRBS accept deposits from members
who hold an account in the bank.
(ii) RRB can extend loans and credit
services to the Priority Sector.
(iii) Regional Rural Banks in India perform
the important function of distribution of
wages under the MGNREGA (Mahatma
Gandhi National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act).
Ans: All of the above
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
Q27. Section 5 of the Fiscal Responsibility
and Budget Management Act, 2003,
explains:
Ans: Borrowing from Reserve Bank
Q28. Suppose bread and butter are
complementary goods. When the price of
bread is 80 per piece, the demand for
butter is 10 kg. When the price of bread
rises to 3120, demand for butter falls to 5
kg. Calculate cross elasticity of demand
for butter.
Ans: -1
Q29. Which of the following is regarded
as a primary function of Commercial
Banks?
Ans: Accepting deposits
Q30. In relation to the law of variable
proportion, which of the following
statements are correct?
(i) Total product refers to the total output
of the firm per period of time.
(ii) Average product is total output per
unit of the variable input.
(iii) Marginal product is the change in
total product resulting from using an
additional unit of the variable factor.
Ans: All of the above
Q31._____s curve is a diagrammatic
presentation of all those combinations of
two commodities that can be produced in
an economy during a period, given its
resources and the state of technology.
Ans: Production Possibility
Q32. Which of the following points is/are
considered as feature of Indian
Agriculture?
(i) Indian agriculture mainly depends on
rainfall.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
(ii) Agriculture in India is neither fully
commercialised nor completely
subsistent in nature.
(iii) Indian agriculture is the prevalence of
widespread disguised and seasonal
unemployment.
Ans: All Points are correct.
Q33. means the quantity of a
commodity that firms are able and willing
to offer for sale in the market in a given
period of time and at a given price.
Ans: Supply
Q34. As per Census 2011, has
people living per square
kilometer, and is the state with the
lowest populations.
Ans: Arunachal Pradesh; 17
Q35. Which of the following are
considered as secondary function of
commercial banks?
(i) Collection of bills, draft, cheques,
dividends, etc.
(ii) Acting as an executor, administrator
or trustee.
(iii) Issue of debit and credit cards.
Ans: All of these
Q36. The Market Stabilisation Scheme
(MSS) was launched by the RBI in
Ans: April 2004
Q37. states that other things being
equal the higher the price, the greater
the quantity supplied or the lower the
price, the smaller the quantity supplied.
Ans: Law of Supply
Q38. is a situation in which
people (Between the age group 15-
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
60years) who are willing and able to
work, fail to get jobs at the prevailing
wage rates.
Ans: Unemployment
Q39. The demand for any commodity
depends upon so many factors. These
Ans: Determinants of demand
Q40. Inferior goods show
income elasticity of demand.
Ans: Negative
Q41. Which of the following NOT a
method of measuring national income?
Ans: Profit method
Q42. Read the given statements and
select the most appropriate option.
(i) e-Governance is basically a move
towards SMART governance, implyingsimple, moral, accountable, responsive
and transparent governance.
(ii) IT governance is an element of
corporate governance, aimed at
improving the overall management of IT
and deriving improved value from
investment in information and
technology
Ans: Statement (i) is true.and Statement
(ii) is false.
Q43. curve is a curve that shows
different combinations of two
commodities yielding equal satisfaction
to the consumer.
Ans: Indifference
Q44. Which of the following are regarded
as types of elasticity of demand?
(i) Price elasticity of demand
(ii) Income elasticity of demand
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Ans: All of the above
Q45. Discretionary Fiscal Policy refers to:
Ans: Deliberate policy actions on the part
of the government to change the levels of
expenditure and taxes to influence the
level of national output, employment and
prices.
Q46. “Buyers and sellers in this market
will have a clear knowledge about market
conditions. Hence, there will be one price
throughout the market.”
The above statement is true for a
Ans: Perfect competition
Q47. provides supporting
services in the main areas of industrial
and agricultural production, domestic
and foreign trade and commerce.
Ans: Infrastructure
Q48. Which of the following are example
of non-conventional sources of energy?
(i) Wind energy
(ii) Petroleum
(iii) Natural gas
(iv) Solar energy
Ans: Points (i) and (iv)
Q49. When the number of poor is
estimated as the proportion of people
below the poverty line, it is known as
Ans: Head count ratio
Q50. What are the main characteristic of
an indifference curve?
(i) Indifference curve slopes downwards
to the right.
(ii) Indifference curve is always convex to
the origin.
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://Awww.youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation
Download RBE application for SSC Exams Complete Preparation
(iii) Indifference curves always intersect
each other.
Ans: Only (i) and (ii)
Q51. The government accepted the 15th
Finance Commission of India’s
recommendation to maintain the states’
share in the divisible pool of taxes to
for the five-year period.
Ans: 41%
Q52. In pre-independent India
was the first to discuss the concept of a
Poverty Line.
Ans: Dadabhai Naoroji
Q53. As per the traditional approach,
which of the following statements are
correct in relation to the scope of
economics?
(i) Economics is a social science.
(ii) It studies man’s behaviour as a
rational social being.
(iii) It is considered as a science of wealth
in relation to human welfare.
Ans: All of the above
Q54. In relation to Current Account in
Balance of Payments, which of the
following statements is INCORRECT?
(a) Trade in goods includes exports and
imports of goods:
(b) Current Account is the record of trade
in goods and services and transfer
payments.
(c) Trade in services includes factor
income transactions but does not include
non-factor income transactions.
(d) Transfer payments are the receipts
which the residents of a country get for
‘free’, without having to provide any
goods or services in return.
Telegram (Previous year papers PDFs [SSC,Railway,DSSSB,UP SI):
Ans: c
Q55. Match the following columns.
(A) Gross (i) It is tax imposed
domestic product | on goods and
at market price services.
(B) Netdomestic | (ii) Itis gross
product domestic product
less - depreciation.
(C) Indirect tax - (iii) It is the money
value of all final
goods and services
produced in the
domestic territory
of acountryina
year's time at the
prevailing price.
Ans: A-iii,,B-ii; C-i
Q56. In relation to labour as a factor of
production, which of the following
statements is INCORRECT?
(a) Itis observed that the supply curve of
labour is backward bending at higher
wages.
(b) Some labourers have more efficiency
and some labourers have less efficiency.
(c) Labour has less bargaining power as it
is a perishable thing.
(d) Labour is separable from labourer.
Ans: d
Q57. Read the given statements and
select the most appropriate option
regarding monopoly market.
(i) A single seller supplies the commodity
to the entire market.
(ii) A consumer will not find a substitute
commodity for the monopoly products.
Ans: Statement (i) is true and Statement
(ii) is false.
https://t.me/RBE_S
YouTube (Free lectures and job updates): https://www. youtube.com/c/RBERevolutionByEducation 
