  20/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM) Pandit Birju Maharaj was an Indian dancer, composer, singer, and exponent of the "Kalka-Bindadin" Gharana
⬥ of Kathak dance in India. -- > Lucknow
⬥ Who was the founder of the Satyashodhak Samaj?----, Jyotirao Phule
⬥ Which State's Chief Minister has been awarded the Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar Award for feamfstate, in May 2023? __ > Chief Minister of UP
⬥ Which institution was established in 2015, in the place of Planning commission of India?,__., NITI Aayog According to the Women’s Reservation Bill, 2023, how many seats in the Lok Sabha and state legislative assemblies are
⬥ reserved for women? - -> One-third
⬥ Which Indian musician is the first singer to get the highest civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna?---- 4s. subbulakshmi
⬥ Who joined the Competition Commission of India (CCI) as Chairperson on 23rd May, 2023?---- Ravyneet Kaur is the total process of collecting. compiling, analyzing and disseminating demographic, economic and
⬥ social data pertaining, at a specific time, of all persons in a country or a well-defined part of a country. > Population Census Complete the statement given below with respect to the judge’s removal.
⬥ ---> The Indian Constitution : prescribes a very difficult procedure for removal of judges. Which of the following statements is correct regarding badminton? I. At the beginning of the game of badminton and when the score is even, the server serves from the left service court.
⬥ Il. Server and receiver always stand in opposite service courts but on the same side. > Neither I nor II
⬥ is the most commonly used measure of money supply.---- 43
⬥ Which Indian dancer won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for Odissi Dance in 2018?---- Surupa Sen
⬥ Barash is similar to the hindu festival Diwali, which is celebrated by which of following tribes?---- varli and Kokna The First Economic Census of India was conducted throughout the country, except Lakshadweep, during
⬥ in collaboration with the States/Union Territories (UTs). --> 1977
⬥ When Mendeleev started his work, how many elements were known at that time?----, 63 According to part IVA of Indian Constitution," who is a parent or guardian, has a duty to provide opportunities for
⬥ education to his child or, as the case may be, ward between the age of " > 6-14
⬥ The IAAF World Championships in Athletics became a fully professional competition from + > 1997
⬥ Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC) is an initiative by o> Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade
⬥ What is the name of the earliest form of writing known in the Indian subcontinent?---- Indus Script
⬥ Rangaswami Cup is associated with sports + > Hockey 20/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ partners with DAY-NULM towards empowering women entrepreneurs in Juné 2023.---- yNpp
⬥ A tank called the NITI Aayog was established to advise the government.---- policy think Which of the following is function of the Reserve Bank of India? I. Issuing of currency
⬥ I. Lender of last resort --> Both I and II
⬥ Which former SC judge has been appointed as the Governor of Andhra Pradesh? ¢ abdul Nazeer Famous book Arthashastra tells us that the north-west was important for blankets, and for its gold and precious
⬥ stones during the Mauryan period. > south India
⬥ Name the Indo-Persian Dance form from Uttar Pradesh. -.> Kathak
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Leander Paes?---- awn Tennis
⬥ The Constituent Assembly adopted the constitution of India on + > 26th November 1949 The Nehru Trophy competition near Alappuzha, held on the second Saturday of August every year, is the most
⬥ competitive and popular of the category. > boat races Which of the following terms is NOT related with cricket? I. Eagle Q.10} II. Basket --> Both I and II
⬥ In which year was the Treaty of Amritsar signed?----. ;s99 2 rE  The Sangeet Natak Akademi is India's national academy for music, dance and drama. It was created by a resolution of
⬥ the (then) , Government of India, in 1952 with Dr P.V. Rajamannar as its first Chairman. . -> Ministry of Education
⬥ Who has been appointed as the second Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) in India?---- tt General Anil Chauhan
⬥ As per Census-2011,Which of the following states have the highest female literacy rate?---- Kerala
⬥ The loudness of sound is measured in which unit? --> Decibel (dB)
⬥ Pannalal Ghosh is famous for which musical instrument? --> Flute After independence, India launched its First FYP in 1951, under influence of first Prime Minister Jawaharlal
⬥ Nehru. -- > socialist Which of the following is NOT one of the criteria to measure deprivations in the Socio-Economic and Caste Census
⬥ (SECC) 2011 conducted by the government of India? --> Households with no adult female aged 15-59
⬥ In which of the following states of India is the festival Bonalu celebfated?---- Telangana In India, subject to the provisions of article 333, the Legislative Assembly of each State shall consist of not more than Q. 20) members. _ > five hundred 20/02/2024->%{2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ Which Union Ministry announced the launch of the ‘Amazon Future Engineer Programme?’---- Ministry of Tribal Affairs
⬥ Where was the International Shooting Sport Federation World Cup 2022 held?---- Cairo, Egypt
⬥ In which unit, noise pollutiomis measured?---- Decibel
⬥ At the end of which of the following Five-year plans of India, five IITs were set up in the country?---- First Constitutions limit the power of government in many ways. The most common way of limiting the power of government is to specify certain that all of us possess as citizens and which no government can ever be allowed
⬥ to violate. -- > Fundamental Rights
⬥ Leander Paes is associated with - _-> Lawn Tennis In August 2023, Which of the following former Chief Justice of India was appointed a member of Singapore’s
⬥ ..-> International Mediator Panel? > NV Ramana
⬥ Indian origin , was United Kingdom's Home Secretary until November 2023.---- suella Braverman 3"Mysuru Dasara" is a grand celebration in the Indian state of , featuring a royal procession, cultural events,
⬥ and a display of decorated elephants. > Karnataka is a lively dance form of the Bundelkhand region. Its performance begins with the beating of mridang and
⬥ gradually gains momentum dotted with prose and poetic dialogues. > Swang Which of the following states/Union Territories have the highest male literacy rate
⬥ according to Census of India 2011? _-> Kerala
⬥ How many cities of the host state hosted the National Games 2023?---- 5
⬥ In which year was the Gandhi-Irwin Pact signed?----. 193) In August 2023, the Central government has granted a extension to Cabinet Secretary Rajiv,Gauba, making him
⬥ the longest-serving cabinet secretary in India's history. --> One-year Which of the following statement is correct regarding Gautama Buddha? I. Siddhartha, also known as Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, was born about 2500 years ago.
⬥ II. The Gautama Buddha belonged to a small gana known as the Sakya gana. _-> Both I and II In Olympics table tennis event, if the points are tied at 10-10, ajplayer then has to strive for a point lead to win
⬥ the game. . ->2
⬥ Ustad Binda Khan is associated with which of the.following instruments?---- Sarangi
⬥ The Green Revolution was instrumental imreducing India's dependence on imports of:----. Food grains
⬥ With how many countries does India share a sea border?----. 5 Which of the following statements is correct regarding Depreciation? I. Depreciation is termed as loss of value of fixed assets due to wear and tear during its useful life.
⬥ II. Depreciation does not take into account unexpected or sudden destruction. _-> Both I and II 20/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ Which musical instrument is played by Pt. Ravi Shankar?----. sitar
⬥ The Jallianwala Bagh massacre, took place in consequence to the protest against the - _-> Rowlatt Act
⬥ The "Hornbill Festival" features which indigenous tribes showcasing their culture and traditions?---- Naga
⬥ Which of the following is the least populous state of India as per 2011 census?---- sikkim
⬥ Which religion has the majority population in India?---- pinduism
⬥ Which of the parts of the Indian Constitution deals with the Directive Principles of State Policy?---- part 1v 4⬥ In June 2023, who has been awarded the Spinoza Prize, which is also sometimes referred to as the ‘Dutch Nobel Prize’? _ -> Joyeeta Gupta
⬥ What is the time period of the Eleventh five-year plan in India?---- 4997 - 2012
⬥ Which of the following countries borders India to the north-west?---- Afghanistan and Pakistan
⬥ Which Indian dancer won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in 2018 for Chhau Dance?----. Tapan Kumar Pattanayak
⬥ *Mundari’ dance is associated with which of the following state?---- jharkhand
⬥ Banking regulation Act was passed in:----. j949
⬥ In any tennis game, if both players win thpoints each in a game (i.e. score is 40-40), then it's calleda +> deuce When the office of Chairman of the Council of States is vacant, then his or her duties shall be performed by which of
⬥ the following? > Deputy Chairman of the Council of States In 1866, John Newlands, an English scientist, arranged the then known elements in the order of . It is known
⬥ ‘Newlands’ Law of Octaves’. --> increasing atomic masses
⬥ Which sport is the Agha Khan Cup associated with?---- Hockey
⬥ The Green Revolution started in the year 1965 and the five year plan was between 1961-1966.---- 3:4
⬥ Which country will host the 2026 Asian games?---- Japan
⬥ Which of the following Mauryan inscriptions is NOT located in present-day India?---- Kandahar The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has launched a PM-KISAN AI Chatbot in 2023, which will
⬥ provide the farmers witha one-stop solution for their grievances related to the PM-KISAN scheme. > Kisan e-Mitra 5 rE  1994-95 100 percent
⬥ Which of the neighbouring countries used to be parts of India?---- Pakistan and Bangladesh
⬥ Which of the following states have the lowest female literacy rates as per 2011 census?---- Rajasthan
⬥ Which of the following is the highest award for dance in India?----, Sangeet Natak Akademi Award Which state's Chief Minister launched 'Kalaignar Magalir Urimai Thogai Thittam’ initiative with the goal of
⬥ empowering the women of the state? > Tamil Nadu Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions that no person accused of any offence shall be
⬥ compelled to be a witness against himself? > Article 20
⬥ Duleep Trophy is associated with + o> cricket
⬥ To which of the following states does the dance form Lavani, belong?---- \faharashtra
⬥ Into how many distinctive types of territories was the Harshvardhan’s Dynasty divided?----. two
⬥ Who was awarded the 'Udyog Ratna’ award (2023),established by the Maharashtra government?---- Ratan Tata
⬥ Sarojini Naidu served as President of the Indian National Congress in + > 1925
⬥ In which sport the Participants are called Pugilist?---- Boxing
⬥ to designing the theory of Quantum Mechanics. -> Albert Einstein
⬥ Identify the INCORRECT statement/statements. _-> Neither AnorB
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Anaka Alankamony?---- Squash
⬥ services, etc., was introduced in
⬥ Madhya Pradesh as on August 09, 2023. 21/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM) With the Theory of Relativity, transformed the landscape of physics, this theory majorly contributed Read the following about the impact of Green Revolution to the farmers in India. A. The introduction of the Green Revolution helped the farmers in raising their level of income. B. Farmers ploughed back their surplus income for improving agricultural productivity. The Service Tax, a tax on services like telephone services, stock brokers, health clubs, beauty parlors, dry cleaning Under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), of households provided with a Jan Dhan Account in -->
⬥ Ustad Bismillah Khan is a famous exponent of + --> shehnai
⬥ Which of the following article of Indian Constitution is related to the Finance Commission of India?---- article 280
⬥ Green revolution can also be termed as: --> Agricultural revolution
⬥ The "Losar" festival, celebrated in Ladakh and Tibetan communities, marks the - _> New Year Festival 21/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ The “Make in India” was launched on September 25, +> 2014
⬥ Which country won the FIFA World Cup 2022?---- Argentina
⬥ According to World bank, by what rate has extreme poverty reduced in India between 2011 and 2019? |. 15 304
⬥ As on July 2023, Deepika Deshwal is the youngest Indian to deliver a speech at the forthe third time.----, United Nations
⬥ Which of the following is the maximum strength of the Rajya Sabha?----. 359
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Ankita Raina?---- tawn Tennis
⬥ Who of the following was awarded by the Sangeet Natak Akademi for contribution to Bharatnatyam dance style?----, Radha Sridhar
⬥ The Ranjit Singh Gold Cup is associated with which of the following sports?---- Hockey
⬥ The first and foremost role of is that it acts as a medium of exchange.---- Money
⬥ Bohag Bihu is also known as »__»Rangali Bihu
⬥ During what circumstances can some Fundamental Rights be suspended, as per the Indian Constitution?----, During external emergencies, such as war ofextemal aggression Captain Pratima Bhullar Maldonado, an Indian-origin police officer, has become the highest-ranking South Asian
⬥ Woman in the Police Department in May, 2023. --> New York An is a cricket shot where the batsman swings the bat vertically and hits the ball along the ground. The
⬥ ball is hit between cover and mid-off. -- > Off drive
⬥ The capital of the Mauryan empire was + _-> Pataliputra
⬥ Which of the following war/battle is associated with the hanging of Mangal Pandey?---- Indian Rebellion of 1857
⬥ Which state government has passed a law providing 30 per cent horizontal reservation for resident women in the state in government jobs, in January 2023? > Uttarakhand
⬥ What is the chemical formula for barium hydroxide?----. Ba(OH)) 7⬥ Which dance style is associated with the story of lord Krishna and his queen Satyabhama ‘Bhaamaakalaapam’?----, Kuchipudi
⬥ Which country hosted the FIFA World Cup 2022?---- Qatar The Second Five year Plan stressed rapid industrialization and the public sector. It was drafted and planned under the
⬥ leadership of . > P.C Mahalanobis 21/02/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ Cricket became an international game with the formation of the in 1909. icc In 1919, Gandhiji called for a satyagraha against the Rowlatt Act that curbed such as the freedom of
⬥ expression. > fundamental rights
⬥ According to the 2011 census of India, which of the following states/UTs is most literate? so Gog
⬥ Before , India was in the first stage of demographic transition.---- 99)
⬥ Which five-year plan of India was introduced under the leadership of Indira Gandhi?---- Fourth The Right to Freedom includes the right to practice any profession, occupation, trade, or business under which articles
⬥ of the Indian Constitution? -- > Articles 19-22 Who chairs the parliamentary committee report that prepared the report 'Covid-19 Pandemic: Global Response, India’s
⬥ Contributions and the Way Forward'? > PP Chaudhary
⬥ During ancient India in the Tamil region, ordinary ploughmen were known as + > uzhavar Which of the following singer. was awarded Padma Bhushan in 2023 for her contribution to film playback singing in 19
⬥ languages? . > Vani Jairam
⬥ Hareli,Kajari, and Madai festival are associated with which of the following states?---- Chhattisgarh Which of the following statements is correct regarding Central Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2023? I. It was introduced in Lok Sabha in August, 2023. II. It amends the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017. ⬥ --> Both I and II
⬥ Which country has won the FIH Men’s Hockey World Cup 2023?---- Germany
⬥ The Vice-President of India serves as the ex-officio Chairman of which legislative body?---- Rajya Sabha
⬥ The Gross Demestic Product of a country is derived from the different sectors of the economy, namely > agricultural sector, the industrial sector and the service sector 8⬥ Which chemical compound is used in car batteries and has the formula PbSO4?---- [ead sulfate
⬥ Who is appointed as Attorney General for India from Ist October, 2022?---- R Venkataramani Famed Bharatnatyam exponent and founder of Kalakshetra, Rukmini Devi Arundale was the proud recipient of 1956 Q.17} ————— - > Padma Bhushan
⬥ To which of the following states of India does the dance form Dandari belong?----. Telangana
⬥ India has Km of land border and a coastline of 7,516.6 Km including island territories.---- 15,106.7
⬥ Which Indian state hosted the FIH Men’s Hockey World cup 2023?---- odisha 21/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ In which of the following states is the Hornbill festival celebrated?---- Nagaland Which of the following state's government launches Bhagwan Birsa Munda Jodaraste Scheme to Connect Tribal
⬥ Villages with Main Roads? . Maharashtra Megasthenes wrote about Pataliputra, saying that it is a large and beautiful city that is surrounded by a massive wall. It
⬥ has 570 towers and gates. > 64 Which of the following dances is performed by women on yarious occasions to the beating of a drum in Madhya
⬥ Pradesh? --> Matki dance A typical freestyle wrestling bout, is divided into periods of thminutes each with a 30-second break in
⬥ between. --> 2
⬥ Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution deals with the Indian Parliament?---- 79.199
⬥ In a capitalist society the goods produced are distributed among people not on the basis of what people need but on the basis of Purchasing Power
⬥ Given among the options,----s a state/UT with highest literacy rate(census 2011).---- Lakshadweep
⬥ Who coined the term ‘Evergreen Revolution’ to increase agriculture production in India?---- ys Swaminathan
⬥ India became the winner of the Cricket World Cup for the first time in:---- j933
⬥ Which of the following articles of Indian Constitution is related to the Fundamental Duties?---- article S1A In October 2022, Justice has been appointed as the presiding officer of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention)
⬥ tribunal by the government of India. > Dinesh Kumar
⬥ is a state or condition in which an individual or community lacks the financial resources and essentials for a minimum standard of living. _-> Poverty Which of the following statement is correct regarding rate of diffusion of liquids? I. Rate of diffusion of liquids is higher than that of solids. II. This is due to the fact that in the liquid state, particles move freely and have greater space between each other as
⬥ compared to particles in the solid state. > Both I and II
⬥ The Eighth five year plan was finally launched in after the initiation of structural adjustment policies.---- j999 Read the following about Commercial Banks in India. A. Commercial banks are the other type of institutions which are a part of the money-creating system of the economy. B. They accept deposits from the public and lend out part of these funds to those who want fo borrow.
⬥ Identify the INCORRECT statement/statements. > Neither A nor B In May 2023, Praveen Sood, the Director General of Police in Karnataka, has been appointed as the next director of the
⬥ --> Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)
⬥ In which year was the first edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket tournament held?---- 290g
⬥ Who among the following was associated with the Young Bengal Movement?---- Henry Derozio
⬥ Who of the following is famous for playing musical instrument Kanjira?---- pydukkotai Dakshinamurthi Pillai For SSC Exams Complete*Preparation (Download RBE Application) (Learn from thoseWwho have cleared the exam themselves) https://play.google.com/store/apps/details ?id=com.revolution.education SSC EXAMS 2024-25 é8 ALL SUBJECTS MATHS GHK/cs 3 MONTHS @iSs VALIDITY 2499 REASONING ENGLISH HINDI @foroos a Se SHUBHAM JAIN SIR HAPPY RAO SIR AMAN SIR PANHAJSIR ANSHULSIR SACHINSIR RADHIKAMAM SHIVAMSIR (SSC CGL SELECTED) 10 D  22/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ Which of the following is NOT a writ issued by the Supreme Court of India?---- gus soli “PM Programme for Restoration, Awareness, Nourishment and Amelioration of Mother Earth” (PM-PRANAM) scheme
⬥ launched in 2023 aims -> to promote usage of alternative fertilizers and balanced use of chemical fertilizers Which Chief Minister made an announcement regarding the issuance of Kunbi certificates to old Maratha Kunbis in
⬥ 2023? --> Eknath Shinde
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Anjum Chopra?---- Cricket
⬥ Radha Sridhar is associated with which of the following classical dance?,__. Bharatnatyam
⬥ The Simon Commission arrived inIndiain__-----, 90g
⬥ Which country hosted the FIFA U-17 World Cup 2023?---- Indonesia
⬥ Who has been conferred the first ever 'Udyog Ratha’ award instituted by the Maharashtra government in August 2023? __ > Ratan Tata
⬥ Which instrument is played by Pandit Ravi Shankar?---- sitar
⬥ Which among the following have the lowest sex-ratio as per 2011 Census?---- Rajasthan
⬥ A football match is played by two teams, each with a maximum of - .> eleven players
⬥ The proportion of the population below the poverty line is called the poverty ratioor____-----headcount ratio
⬥ Who of the following is an agricultural scientist who has played an important role in the green revolution in India?---- Monkombu Sambasivan Swaminathan Disrespecting of National Flag is a violation of which of the following Fundamental Duties mentioned in the Indian Q.14} Constitution? --> Article 51A(a)
⬥ Rukmini Devi is regarded as one of the most distinguished artists of ----- Bharatanatyam
⬥ Kathak dance is known as combination of---------. Music, dance and narrative
⬥ On the bank of now dry course of which river, the ancient city of Harappa was built?---- Ravi
⬥ Direct change of gas to solid without changing in to liquid is called + _-> Deposition 11Which term is used to denote the mean income computed for every man, woman, and child in a particular group
⬥- > including those living in group quarters? _ Per capita income
⬥ Gurpurab is celebrated by which of the following community?---- sikh 22/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM) The Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (BNSS) 2023, aimed at replacing the Criminal Procedure Code was introduced
⬥ bY —___ - => Home Minister Amit Shah Which of the following is correct regarding green revolution In India? I. During green revolution, shifting from traditional farming to monoculture had negative effects on small farmers.
⬥ II. One of the impacts of green revolution is over-capitalization in Agriculture. > Both I and II Which of the following clubs is playing in the i-League 2023/24? I. Punjab FC
⬥ II. Mohammedan Sporting Club _-> Only II
⬥ The adult literacy rate (15+) for male is against 59.3 of females in 2011---- 7g Which of the following statements is correct regarding five year plan in India? I. India had emerged as one of the fastest growing economy by the end of the Tenth Five year Plan. Il. Tenth Five year Plan had set ‘monitorable targets’ for few key indicators of development. Q5) --> Both I and II
⬥ Which article of the Indian Constitution comprises the fundamental duties?---- 5)_4
⬥ Which state cabinet has approved the 'Abua Awas Yojna', a housing scheme in October 2023?---- Jharkhand in Indian Dance is given in recognition of excellence and achievement in performance or research studies
⬥ in Indian Dance. - -> The Manorama, Thakkar Award
⬥ Who was the founder of the Mauryan empire?----. Chandragupta Maurya
⬥ Which dance form originated in Andhra Pradesh?---- Kuchipudi Read the following statements about Money. A. Money also acts as a convenient unit of account. B. The value of all goods and services can be expressed in monetary units.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. _-> Both AandB
⬥ What is the basic unit of time? --> Second (s) 12Match the following personalities with their associated musical instrument: A) S. Balachander B) Anushka Shankar C) Kishan Maharaj 1 Tabla 2 Veena
⬥ 3 Sitar --> A-2,B-3,C-1
⬥ In any tennis game, any game starts at 0-0 and the zero point in tennis is called + > love
⬥ How many members of the Rajya Sabha are elected indirectly and are representatives of States and Union Territories? __ > 238
⬥ Which two teams played in the finals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy in November 2023?---- Punjab and Baroda
⬥ Who was recently appointed as a Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in June.2023?---- Swaminathan Janakiraman
⬥ In which of the following states of India is Nongkrem festival celebrated?---- Meghalaya
⬥ HT (recessions) AR AgMict (depressions) & @RM el lei RIGIN Gt Hel al eS! _ aaa RTT (Cyclical unemployment)
⬥ Tipu Sultan became the ruler of Mysore in + o> 1792 22/02/2024-> (2:30PM - 3:30 PM) Who is known as the "Father of the Indian Renaissance" and played a pivotal role in the Bengal Renaissance
⬥ movement? --> Raja Ram Mohan Roy
⬥ Name the famous hockey player after which there is a stadium built in New Delhi.---- Major Dayan Chand Which of the following pair of sports persons — sports associated with is correct? I. Smriti Mandhana — Hockey
⬥ Il. Jyothi Yarraji — Cricket _-> Neither I nor I
⬥ What is the central theme of Poshan Pakhwada 2023, organized by the Ministry of Women and Child Development? _ -> Millet-based foods for nutritional security Which iconic Indian classical vocalist, often known as the "Mewati Maestro," is celebrated for his mastery of khayal
⬥ singing and his innovative approach to ragas? > Pandit Jasraj According to census of India 2011, Least Literate State of India among the given
⬥ option is: _-> Bihar The city of was located on Khadir Beyt (also spelled as Bet) in the Rann of Kutch, where there was fresh
⬥ water and fertile soil. - > Dholavira 13Which dance form from Karnataka involves large drums hung around the necks of men and is known for its religious
⬥ and battle fervour? --> Dollu Kunitha
⬥ Giddha dance is mainly related to:---- Punjab Which of the following Indian states has less sex ratio then combined sex ratio of India, according to 2011 census of
⬥ India? - > Gujarat As on July 2023, India's External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar filed his nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha Q.11} elections from which state? --> Gujarat
⬥---> In July 2023, Aadhav Arjuna was elected as president of the Federation of India . _S Basketball Read the following about Deficit reduction. A. Government deficit can be reduced by an increase in taxes or reduction in expenditure: B. In India, the government has been trying to increase tax revenue with greater reliance.on direct taxes (indirect taxes are regressive in nature — they impact all income groups equally).
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. -> Both AandB
⬥ How many triads were mentioned in Dobereiner’s Triads?----. Four
⬥ The Indian Parliament comprises of the - _-> President and the two Houses The "Thrissur Pooram" is a famous temple festival.celebrated in which Indian state, known for its elaborate processions
⬥ and fireworks displays? --> Kerala
⬥ Which of the following is an example of constitutional bodies in India---- The Election Commission of India
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Mouma Das?---- Table Tennis Read the following about Capital receipts. A. All those receipts of the govemment which create liability or reduce financial assets are termed as capital receipts. B. The main items of capital receipts are loans raised by the government from the public which are called market borrowings, borrowing by the government from the Reserve Bank and commercial banks and other financial institutions through the saleof treasury bills, loans received from foreign governments and international organisations, and recoveriesof loans granted by the central government. Q.1 9) _-«$ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. --> Both A andB The term ‘Green Revolution’ refers to the new agricultural technology developed during the 1950s and 1960s by a team of agricultural experts at the International Centre for Maize and Wheat Improvement in Mexico and at the International
⬥ Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in --> Philippines 22/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM) National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005. It promises days of guaranteed wage employment to all rural
⬥ households in India who volunteer to do unskilled manual work. -- > 100 14 rE wnload Application For @) @RBE | +0 73036 66097 
⬥ India shares its land borders with countries.----. seven Which of the following departments under the Ministry of Finance has launched the scheme “Vivad se Vishwas IT” — (Contractual Disputes) to effectively settle the pending contractual disputes of government and government
⬥ undertakings? > Department of Expenditure What is the name of an Indian-American cancer physician, who is among 15 individuals chosen to the 2023-2024 class
⬥ of White House Fellows? - > Kamal Menghrajani Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) in Himachal Pradesh, 19,578 houses have been sanctioned in Himachal
⬥ Pradeshand__ houses have been completed as of November 9, 2023. > 14,906 Which of the following is correct regarding Conditions of Governor's office? I. The Governor can hold any other office of profit.
⬥ II. The Governor shall be entitled without payment of rent to the use of his official residences.---- Only II
⬥ Which of the following five year plan of India was a complete failure? . Third Five Year Plan
⬥ In which year was the Dandi March by Mahatma Gandhi launched?---- 1939
⬥ Sangeet Natak Academy Awards were earlier known as - .-> Presidential Awards Q.1 0)- > H) is a Molecular Formula of which of the following elements? _-> Hydrogen
⬥ Heptathlon for women includes_____ events, "7
⬥- > PR Sreejesh is a + _>-hookey player Which of the following events was played in National Games 2023? I. Sepak Takraw.
⬥ I. Mallakhamb --> Both and I
⬥ Which of the following parts of the Indian Constitution deals with The Union and its Territories?---- party
⬥- -> Kuchipndi originated in a village named Kuchipudi in the Indian state of.----. Andhra Pradesh
⬥ In India, Garibi Hatao and attainment of self-reliance was the main objective of - _-> Fifth Five Year Plan
⬥ Which of the following measures of money supply is most liquid?---- yy
⬥ Which instrument was played by Ustad Asad Ali Khan?----. Rudra Veena
⬥ Gangaur festival is historically native to which of the following states?---- Rajasthan
⬥ A famous play, *Abhijnana Shakuntalam’ was written by which of the following personalities?---- Kalidasa 1523/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ In which year did Cripps Mission arrive in India?---- j942
⬥ Saikhom Mirabai Chanu is an + _-> Indian weightlifter Article 43: The State shall endeavour to promote cottage industries on an individual or cooperative basis‘in rural areas,
⬥ it is a Directive based on Principles. > Gandhian Article of the Indian Constitution gives an extensive original jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in regard
⬥ to enforcement of Fundamental Rights. -> 32 In August 2023, Neeraj Chopra made history by winning the medal/s in the men’s javelin throw event at
⬥ the World Athletics Championships held in Budapest, Hungary. > gold What are the two main forms of protection used to shield domestic industries from foreign competition in an inward⬥ looking trade strategy? > Tariffs and quotas When Jan Aushadhi Train was flagged off by Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare and Chemicals & Fertilizers, and Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw, Minister for Railways, Communications, Electronics and
⬥ Information Technology? -> In 2023
⬥ In which type of shooting sport do athletes shoot at targets from a distance of 10 meters, 25 meters, and 50 meters?---- Rifle shooting
⬥ Who hosted the 2011 ODI cricket world cup?---- India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh
⬥ India has an open border with which of the following countries?---- Nepal Thi i , . criti i 2 ⬥- - Which of the following gases, when cooled and compressed, can change from a gas to a supercritical fluid state?---- Carbon dioxide (CO)
⬥ In which state, Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant is established?---- Tamil Nadu
⬥ As per Census 2011, India’s population was 121.1 Crore with female population.----, 48.5 percent The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2023 establishes the National Capital Civil
⬥ Services Authority, which consists of the Chief Minister, Chief Secretary of Delhi and -> Principal Home Secretary of Delhi 16⬥ Which album earned Ricky Kej his third Grammy Award?----. pivine Tides
⬥ Fatorpa Zatra and Mando festival are related with which of the following states?---- Goa
⬥ The oldest Veda is the Rigveda, composed about years ago.----, 3500
⬥ dance form originates from the southern Indian state of Kerala.---- Kathakali and Mohiniyattam
⬥ Which among the following Articles of the Indian Constitution deal with 'Right to Freedom of Religion'?---- Article 25-28
⬥ In India the financial/fiscal year istaken from.---- Ist April to 31st March 23/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥-----» --> At independence, ind id abouto’ per cent of f th the country’s population lat was d dependent id on agriculture. icul:----> 75
⬥ Liquids flow and change shape, they are NOT rigid and thus they are also called as ~2-> fluid
⬥ In which year was the Second Anglo-Burmese War fought?---- 1g59
⬥ Which state has the highest population growth according to the 2011 census? _".. Meghalaya
⬥ Which Indian dancer won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in2018 for String puppetry?----, Anupama Hoskere
⬥ The growth rate target for the twelfth five year plan was + > 8%
⬥ Who is famous for playing the percussion instrument Tabla?---- ajiah Rakha
⬥ Who was the last ruler of the Mauryan empire? _-S prinadratha
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Shafali Verma?----. Cricket
⬥---> Since which year did rapid economic growth led to a sharp reduction in India's extreme poverty?---- jo) Which of the following statement is correct about the Digital Personal Data Protection Bill, 2023? I. The Bil! will apply to the processing of digital personal data within India where such data is collected online or collected offline and is digitized.
⬥ II. It will also apply to such processing outside India, if it is for offering goods or services in India. > Both I and II
⬥ Which country hosted the Sultan of Johor Cup 2023?---- Malaysia Which of the following statements is correct regarding Classification of Expenditure of government? I. Revenue Expenditure is expenditure incurred for purposes other than the creation of physical or financial assets of the central government.
⬥ II. Capital expenditure results in creation of physical or financial assets or reduction in financial liabilities. --> Both I and IT
⬥ The government of India in Budget 2023—24, has adopted how many priorities?---- seven 17The idea of has been borrowed from the Constitution of erstwhile USSR (Union of Soviet Socialist
⬥ Republics). > Fundamental Duties
⬥ Which one of the following dance form is performed by Kuruba men in Karnataka?---- poju kunitha Rann Utsav promotes natural beauty and other famous traveling places of the stunning zone of - During the
⬥ full moon nights in the winter season, the white sand desert looks more mesmerizing. --> Kutch
⬥ The 2010 Commonwealth Games were held in in India.---- New Delhi
⬥ Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions the Supreme Court as a court of record?---- Article 129
⬥ Who took oath as the 50th Chief Justice of India? -.> DY Chandrachud 23/02/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM) Anant Maheshwari, the President of India, has been appointed as the Chairperson of Nasscom for the period
⬥ 2023-24. -- > Microsoft
⬥ Who is the presiding officer of the Rajya Sabha (Council of States) in India?---- vice president
⬥ Which of the following five year plan of India aim was to make/India a ‘self-reliant’ and 'self-generating’ economy?---- Third five year Plan
⬥ Which one of the following statements regarding magnetic field is correct?---- Magnetic field lines are closed curves
⬥ Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel served as President of the Congress in +> 1931
⬥ Which union territory of India has the highest population density per 2011 census?---- NcT of Delhi
⬥ Who banned the tractor stunt in Punjab in 2023?---- Bhagwant Mann
⬥ at &g (long jump) F, SORA (take-off), 1? (pit) GupAer gg cm Us SIS FY HT Sle C1 _-» 20
⬥ When.was the first commonwealth games held?----. 1939
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Janet Vidhi?---- Squash
⬥ Which of the following classical dance form is associated with Kerala?---- Mohiniyattam
⬥ The first five-year plan of India was based on which model?----. parrod-Domar Model
⬥ With respect to money and banking, what does SLR stand for?----. Statutory Liquidity Ratio 18⬥ is an initiative of National Bal Bhavan (NBB) to identify the creative potential of children in four main streams and motivate them to pursue and enhance their creative potential. The evaluation and selection is a complex process and procedure which need constant refinement and inputs from creative artists and experts in various fields. > National Bal Shhonor
⬥ Pt. Bhimsen Joshi has received highest civilian award Bharat Ratna in which of the following year? 2009 Which state's government has unveiled its plan to provide homes for over 47,000 impoverished residents in the state’s
⬥ rural areas as part of the inaugural phase of the “Mukhyamantri Gramin Awas NYAY Yojana”? > Chhattisgarh
⬥ King Asoka of the Mauryan Empire was a follower of + _-> Buddhism During which religious event in India do devotees take a holy dip in the Ganges River, believing it washes away their
⬥ sins, and perform various rituals at the riverbanks? > Kumbh Mela The Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 (Rural) of India allows ranking of the households under ‘Others*
⬥ category based on their status on deprivation parameters. -> Seven
⬥ Who of the following was elected as President of the Constituent Assembly of India?---- Rajendra Prasad 23/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ Making sugar from sugar cane falls under which sector. of economic activity?---- Secondary sector
⬥ The has the power to summon ahd prorogue either House of Parliament or to dissolve Lok Sabha.---- president
⬥ Krishna Rao Shankar Pandit, Raja Bhaiya Poonchwale are associated with which Gharana?----. Gwalior Gharana The Dance Festival is organized by the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation. It celebrated twice a year, once in the month of October-November and then in the month of March-April in Kanakunnu palace compound, in the
⬥ city of Trivandrum.or Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. > Nishagandhi Festival
⬥ Which of the following statements is NOT correct regarding Fundamental Duties mentioned in the Indian Constitution? __ > Fundamental Duties are mentioned in PART VA in the Indian Constitution
⬥ Who among the following people was popular as the “Nightingale of India”?----. Sarojini Naidu
⬥ Who among the following is appointed as 25th Director General of Indian Coast Guard?---- Rakesh Pal
⬥ Which element has the highest atomic number and is the heaviest naturally occurring element?---- Uranium (U)
⬥ In south India, the was a village assembly found in areas where the landowners were not brahmins. --> Ur
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Ankita Das?----. Table Tennis 19 rE 
⬥ Which game uses the Elo rating system to assess the skill levels of its players?---- Chess
⬥ With respect to the green revolution, what does 'HYV' stands for?---- High Yielding Varieties Which classical dancer was one of the youngest recipient of Padma Bhushan (1992) for her contributions to the field of
⬥ classical dancing? --> Sonal Mansingh
⬥ Who is known as the father of green revolution in India?---- 4.5 swaminathan Who has assumed the charge as Chairperson, International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) from August
⬥ 2023? - -> K. Rajaraman
⬥ To which of the following states does the dance form Chhau belong?----. West Bengal The aim of the MISTHI Scheme is to protect and revive ecosystem on the Indian coast. while enhancing the
⬥ socio-economic status of nearby communities > mangrove Which of the following pair regarding event and its type is correct? I. Javelin — Jumping
⬥ II. high jump — Throwing --> Neither I nor I
⬥ What is the total literacy rate according to the 2001 census of India?----. 64.83 percent
⬥ Which of the following countries is NOT a membenof SAARC?---- China . 20  Your life, Your hard work, Your SUEEBEs PF Revolution by Education 24/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ The Directive Principles of State Policy in the Indian Constitution are primarily aimed at achieving: --> Social and economic justice
⬥ In classical dance, which Rasa represents "Anger"?---- Raudra "The State shall take steps to separate the judiciary from the executive in the public services of the State," This is
⬥ mentioned under of Constitution of India. = Part IV In September 2023, who has been elected as the Chairman of the Press Trust of India's Board of Directors for a one-year
⬥ term? - -> KN. Shanth Kumar
⬥ What is the literacy rate among males in India according to the Literacy Rate 2011 census?---- gy 14%
⬥ The term ‘Dhamma’ is the Prakrit word that is associated with which of the following rulers of ancient India?---- ashoka The Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 201! conducted by the government of India ranked households in how “jac? ⬥---> many categories? > Three of a substance is the temperature and)pressure at which thphases (gas, liquid, and solid) of that substance
⬥ may coexist in thermodynamic equilibrium. --> Triple-point
⬥ Who has been appointed as the chairman of MasterCard India from September 2023?----. Rajnish Kumar
⬥ The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched 'Mera Yuva Bharat (MY Bharat)’ platform for youth of the country on October 3 1st 2023, at Kartavya Path on the National Day. _-> Unity
⬥ During eighth Five year plan, India became a member of the World Trade Organization on | January > 1995
⬥ Which of the following won the maximum number of gold medals in the National Games 2023?----. Maharashtra Q.1 3)- > The social reformer Raja Ram Mohan Roy is associated with which socio-religious reform movement in India? > Brahmo Samaj 21Read the following about the Revenue expenditure. A. Revenue Expenditure is expenditure incurred for purposes other than the creation of physical or financial assets of the central government. B. It relates to those expenses incurred for the normal functioning of the government departments and various services, interest payments on debt incurred by the government, and grants given to state governments and other parties (even though some of the grants may be meant for creation of assets).
⬥ Identify the INCORRECT statement/statements. -> Neither AnorB
⬥ Which artists have won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for contribution to Chhau dance of Seraikella?---- Tapan Kumar Pattanayak 77th Independence Day was celebrated in which of the year? .16) --> 2023 ⬥ Read the following about Green Revolution. A. The Green Revolution was an endeavour initiated by Norman Borlaug in the 1960s. B. He is known as the 'Father of Green Revolution’ in the world.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. _-» Both AandB
⬥ Pool swimming at the Olympic Games takes place inside a meter-long swimming pool divided into eight lanes. --> 50
⬥ Who of the following singer popularized the Sambalpuri folk song *Rangabati Rangabati’?---- Krishna Patel When a shuttle is floated high into the air, a player has time totinleash a powerful overhand shot straight to the floor of
⬥ the opposing court. This is known as . --> Smash 24/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥---> To which of the following states does the folk dance Khoria belong? _-» Haryana Implementation of family planning Programmes were amongst major targets of which of the following five year plan of
⬥ India? - -> Fourth five year plan
⬥ Which sport features the "Breaststroke" as a technique?----. Swimming
⬥ unveiled the Logo, Theme and Website of India’s G20 Presidency in Virtual mode.(November 2022)---- Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Siddharth Suchde?---- squash The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister of India, has approved a bus scheme “PM-eBus Sewa” for
⬥ augmenting city bus operation by e-buses on PPP model. _-> 10000
⬥ Which of the following is an example of Quasi-Judicial Bodies in India? g¢gte Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission 22According to the data from the Ministry of Mines, the largest resources of gold ore (primary) are located in which of the
⬥ following Indian states? -> Bihar
⬥ Who was the founder of the Shunga Dynasty in India?---- Pushyamitra
⬥ Tapan Kumar Pattanayak won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award in which dance form?---- Chhau Which of the following Articles of Indian Constitution under the fundamental duties is related to the value and
⬥ preservation of the rich heritage of our composite culture? --> Article 51A(f)
⬥ The Bardoli Satyagraha took place in which year?---- 190g
⬥ Which of the following is required by the aquatic animals to breathe under water?---- Dissolyed Oxygen
⬥ According to the 2011 Census of India, the proportion of population has declined by 0.2, PP (percentage point). _ -> Sikh Which country is India's neighbour to the west, sharing a significant border, and is often a topic of geopolitical
⬥ significance? > Pakistan
⬥ Who has been appointed as the new CEO of NITI Aayog?----. BVR Subrahmanyam
⬥ Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution is mentioned under the Right to Equality?---- Abolition of titles
⬥ How many players are there on a standard ice hockey (when there is no overtime or penalties) team during a game?----, Six Which regulatory body in India oversees and supervises microfinance institutions (MFIs) to ensure their compliance
⬥ with regulations? > Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
⬥ Which of the following festival has ‘Jalli Kattu’ as a feature?---- Pongal 24/02/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM) As on June 2023, the Executive Directors of the World Bank selected Ajay Banga, as the President of the World
⬥ Bank for a five-year term. -> 14th Which of the following dancers of India won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for Folk and Tribal dance in the year
⬥ 2018? --> Arjun Singh Dhurwey
⬥ Pushkar Camel fair is associated with which of the following states?---- Rajasthan
⬥ is a storytelling classical dance form from Andhra Pradesh.----. Kuchipudi
⬥ Kapil Dev lifted the 1983 World Cup (then known as the Prudential Cup 83) in the stadium.----. Lord's 23⬥ India's southern neighbours across the sea consist of the island countries.---- two As enshrined in article 168 of Constitution of India, there are two Houses of the Legislature of a State, one shall be
⬥ known as the and the other as the Legislative Assembly. Legislative Council Hockey India, under the Ministry of , is the governing body responsible for planning and implementing all
⬥ activities related to men’s and women’s hockey in India. > Youth Affairs and Sports
⬥ Which of the following is capital of People's Republic of China?---- Beijing The Green Revolution significantly increased crop yields and transformed Indian agriculture. What was one of its -->
⬥ notable drawbacks? --> Environmenta! degradation
⬥ Which city hosted the 2018 Asian games?----. Jakarta and Palembang
⬥ Right to property isa___under the Constitution of India.---- Constitutional Right Government in Budget 2023-24 has made announcement of Pradhan Mantri PVTG Development Mission for
⬥ implementing targeted schemes for socially and economically backward, Scheduled tribes. Here PVTGs stands for: _ Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups
⬥ Which type of expenditure refers to expenses that do not lead,to the creation of physical or financial assets?----, Revenue Expenditure
⬥ Who renounced his knighthood on learning the Jallianwala Bagh massacre?---- Rabindranath Tagore ->
⬥ Who has been awarded the Global Indian Icon of the Year at the annual UK-India Awards in June, 2023?----, Mary Kom
⬥ Which instrument is played by Amjad Ali Khan?---- sarod
⬥ The Harappans probably got copper from present-day of + _-> Rajasthan
⬥ How many horizontal rows are present in the modern periodic table?---- 7
⬥ remained the mainstay of the Green Revolution for years in India.---- wheat 24/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ On which Indian musician's life was the documentary film “Bansuri Guru” based on?----. pari Prasad Chaurasia
⬥ Which of the following state is associated with Kathak?---- Uttar Pradesh
⬥ Which one is the Traditional Celebrations of Kerala? --> Onam
⬥ What is Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)?----, It's the percentage of deposits that banks must keep in liquid form in the short term
⬥ Fthrow is the sport term of + _-> Basketball 24⬥ The couple who won Padma Bhushan in 2009 for Bharatanatyam are Vannadil Pudiyaveettil Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan
⬥ Who among the following addressed World Parliament of Religions at Chicago in 1893?---- swami Vivekananda
⬥ Sri Lanka is separated from India by a narrow channel of sea formed by the Palk Strait and the a Gulf of Mannar
⬥ Who among the following is the wife of Chandragupta I.---- Kumaradevi
⬥ In which year did India host second Asian Games?----. 982
⬥ Article 51A (i) of the Indian Constitution is related to which of the following?---- To safeguard public property and to abjure violence Which of the following terms is NOT related with cricket? I. Runs
⬥- > II. Dribbling --> Only II
⬥ Which of the following five-year plan of India has achieved its target growth? » . Eighth Plan
⬥ In India, the salaries of the Supreme Court judges are determined by - > Parliament of India As on June 2023, who launched the multi-lingual India Legal App, legal helpline accessible to the citizens to obtain
⬥ legal assistance from their homes? --> Justice M. N. Venkatachaliah
⬥ India shares about of its land border withAfghanistan.---- 196 KM
⬥ Who has been named “Governor of the Year” for 2023 at Central Banking Awards 2023?---- shaktikanta Das The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved a new Central Sector Scheme “PM Vishwakarma” in 2023 with a financial outlay of Rs.13,000 crore for a period of
⬥ ———___—_: --> five years
⬥ A fall in the bank rate can the money supply.----. increase
⬥ What is the atomic number of Helium according to the modern periodic table?---- 5 25 rE  26/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM) On 8 April, 1929, Bhagat Singh and B.K. Dutt threw a bomb in the The aim of the event as their leaflet explained,
⬥ was not to kill but “to make the deaf hear”, > Central Legislative Assembly
⬥ Which sport is the Durand cup is associated with?---- Football Q. 3) _ o> , Which belongs to Kerala in southern India, takes its name from the mythic enchantress, Mohini. > Mohiniattam Which Indian has been recognized on the Carnegie Corporation of New York's annual "Great Immigrants" list in June,
⬥ 2023? - > Ajay Banga
⬥ Which state's government launched Gruha Lakshmi Scheme 2023?)__., Telangana In which year did Abhinav Bindra create history by becoming the first Indian to win an individual gold medal at the
⬥ Olympic Games in the 10-meter Air Rifle event? --> 2008 According to Ministry of Commerce & Industry, during the financial year April 2022 — January 2023, the agricultural
⬥ exports have amounted to USD billion. > 43.37
⬥ Shiv Kumar Sharma's name is synonymous with Indian classical music instrument.---- santoor
⬥ Who has been appointed as the Executive Director of Reserve Bank of India in October 2023?----. Muncesh Kapur
⬥ The Attorney-General for India shall hold office during the pleasure of the - > President of India
⬥ In which year did the Father of India's Green Revolution pass away?----. 1923
⬥---> Mendeleev’s Periodic Law was modified, and was adopted as the basis of the Modern Periodic Table.---- Atomic number Read the following about Revenue Receipts. A. Revenue receipts are those receipts that do not lead to a claim on the government. B. Revenue receipts are divided into tax and non-tax revenues.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. _-> Both AandB
⬥ What is the rank of India in terms of the World's area among the countries of the world?---- 7p
⬥ Which of the following festival is celebrated by Khamtis tribe of Arunachal Pradesh?----. Sangken
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Sandeep Kumar?---- Archery 26⬥ The unemployment rate is calculated as the ratio of:----, Unemployed workers to the labour force
⬥ Varahamihira's work Panchasiddhantika deals with astronomical systems.----. Five
⬥ Folk dance of 'Jatra' is originated from the state of:---- West Bengal
⬥ As of November 2023, how many Fundamental Duties are in the Constitution of India?---- 1; 26/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM) In which Indian state is Kambala, the traditional buffalo race, conducted during the winter months to celebrate the
⬥ harvest season? --> Karnataka
⬥ Brahmotsavam festival is historically native to which of the following states?---- andhra Pradésh In which month, Women's Reservation Bill 2023 [The Constitution (One Hundred Twenty-Eighth Amendment) Bill,
⬥ 2023] was introduced in Lok Sabha in 2023? > September
⬥ Who wrote the original handwritten version of the Indian Constitution?._. prem Behari Narain Raizada
⬥ The concept of "judicial review" in India allows the judiciary to review and strike down laws that are found to be:----, In violation of fundamental rights The National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) aims to provide a guarantee of how many days of
⬥ employment per year to rural households in India? --> 100
⬥ After the first five-year Plan of India, two subsequent five-year plans were formulated till + > 1965
⬥ In Football a direct is awarded if a player commits any of the following offences against an opponent in a manner considered by the refeto be careless, reckless or using excessive force: > fkick
⬥ Sonal Mansingh is mainly associated with which dance style?----. Odissi and Bharatnatyam In India, there are how many steel-manufacturing Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) under the Ministry of
⬥ Steel? --> Two Which of the following statements regarding money is correct? I. Money supply is a stock variable.
⬥ Il. The total stock of money in circulation among the public at a particular point of time is called money supply.---- Both I and II
⬥ In which year was the first War of Independence taken place in India?---- 1957
⬥ Into how many ages is the prehistoric times in terms of technology divided?---- Three 27⬥ According to the 2011 Census of India, among the State/ UTs, the male and female literacy rate is highest in > Kerala Who has been chosen as the national icon to raise awareness about voting and educate voters for the upcoming 2024
⬥ elections in India? --> Sachin Tendulkar Which of the following pair of sports persons — sports associated with is correct? I. Manu Bhaker — Shooting
⬥ I. Tajinderpal Singh Toor — Shotput _-> Both I and II
⬥ Renowned violinist - trained in Carnatic music as well as Western classical music.---- Lakshminarayana Subramaniam In August 2023, Former Indian cricketer will become a “national icon” of the Election Commission (EC)
⬥ to spread awareness regarding the need for greater voter participation in the electoral process. _ > Sachin Tendulkar
⬥ Which dance style was kept alive by the Devadasis?---- Bharatnatyam
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Sania Mirza?---- Fawi Tennis 26/02/2024-> (2:30 PIM)- 3:30 PM)
⬥ As of October 2023, who among the following is the governor of Odisha?---- Raghubar Das
⬥ —— was the founder of the Widow Remarriage Association (1861)---- \fahadev Govind Ranade
⬥ The script used by the Sunga was a variant of Brahmi, and was used to write the language.---- sanskrit
⬥ In 2023, the Union Cabinet of India approved the National Green Hydrogen Mission.---- January
⬥ According to the 2011 census,of India, the literacy rate in India is percent.----. 72.99
⬥ Which of the following. is a's' block element? _-> Rubidium
⬥---> The nineteenth century saw the golden age of under the patronage of Wajid Ali Shah. _-> Kathak
⬥ _--> The MRTP Act of 1969 aimed at: -.> Regulating and controlling monopolistic and restrictive trade practices Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions abolition or creation of Legislative Councils in
⬥ States? “> Article 169 In Volleyball, if the game is tied at in any set (except fifth set), the set continues till one team builds a two-point
⬥ lead over the other. --> 24-24
⬥ In which state of India is the "Flamingo Festival’ organized?---- andhra Pradesh 28The Government is a statement of expected receipts and expected expenditures of the Government (for the coming fiscal year) that reveals the budgetary policy of the Government to achieve the twin objective of growth and
⬥- > stability. _ > Budget Which iconic playback singer, known for his mesmerizing voice and classic hits like "Mere Sapno Ki Rani Kab Aayegi
⬥ Tu," was also a music director and composer? --> Kishore Kumar
⬥ Average density of population inIndiais___ persons per square km, according to 2011 census of India.----, 389
⬥ Who among the following won the ICC U19 Women's T20 World Cup 2023?----. India
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Aruna Mishra?---- Boxing
⬥ National Nritya Shiromani Award 2022 was won by__.----, Aparna Satheesan
⬥ The first five year plan of India was based on + _> Harrod-Domar Model Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the priority section of Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor at __.5 Sahibabad RapidX Station, Uttar Pradesh on October 20, 2023. What does 'T' stand for in RRTS? _ ⬥ > Transit
⬥ According to the Indian Constitution, the Right to protection of life and personal liberty is a:---- Fundamental Right of an Individual 26/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM) Washing soda, sodium carbonate decahydrate, efflorescent crystals used for washing, especially textiles, is a compound
⬥- > of tt _ > sodium
⬥---> In which month is the harvest festival Lohri celebrated? -. January
⬥ When calculating Net National Product (NNP), what is deducted from Gross National Product (GNP)?---- Depreciation Which Hockey team was the winner of first Men Hockey world cup in 1971? . ⬥ --> Pakistan
⬥ How Many major theories have been established on the origin of iron in India?---- yo
⬥ Who.is famous for playing the musical instrument shehnai?---- 4); Anmad Hussain Which of the following text is a main source for the study of the technique and grammar of body movement in
⬥ Bharatnatyam dance? > Abhinaya darpana
⬥ Which of the following countries shares longest land border with India?---- Bangladesh
⬥ The National Dental Commission Bill, 2023 introduced by ministry.---- Health and Family Welfare 29India beat in the final of the Asian Kabaddi Championship 2023 at the Dong-Eui Institute of Technology
⬥ Seokdang Cultural center in Busan, Republic of Korea, in July 2023 > Tran
⬥ What is the minimum age to become a member of Rajya Sabha?---- 39 _._s The establishment of the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) in 1964 was a significant step toward:----⬥ P gnu P > Promoting heavy industries
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Vikas Krishan Yadav?---- Boxing
⬥ Who has been crowned Femina Miss India World 2023? --> Nandini Gupta
⬥ The first Indian to win the All England Badminton Championship in 1980 - _-> Prakash:Padukone
⬥ James Augustus Hickey is also known as father of + _-> Indian Journalism
⬥ Which state is connected to the Bastar Dussehra festival? --> Chhattisgarh
⬥ Which five year plan's objective is ‘establishment of a self-reliant and self-generating economy’?---- Third
⬥ As of 2023, when was the last fundamental duty added to Article 51 A?.2_. 5992 Based on the Saxena Committee’s recommendations, in , the Ministry of Rural Development under the
⬥ government of India launched the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC). --> 2011 . 30 27/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ As of May 2022, which of the following is NOT a part of Article 19 of the Indian Constitution?----. Right to Property
⬥ Which late veteran tribal leader of Tripura received the Padma Shri posthumously in 2023?----. Narendra Chandra Debbarma " ⬥ Complete the sentence. "Most of Ashoka’s inscriptions -""__s, were in Prakrit and were written inthe Brahmi script What was the primary purpose of the "Intensive Agricultural District Program (IADP)" launched during the Green
⬥ Revolution in India? --> Increasing agricultural productivity in specific districts
⬥ In Himachal Pradesh, which of the following is a floral festival?---- phulaich festival
⬥ Article 126 of the Indian Constitution mentions +. Appointment of acting Chief Justice of India
⬥ Which of the following is the reason for unemployment?----, Large migration to a particular area
⬥ Who has been conferred with the Grand Cross of the Order of Honour by the President of Greece in August 2023?---- Narendra Modi The wrestler must be at least years old, and must, be sponsored by the national federation, to compete at the
⬥ World Championships or Olympic Games. > 17
⬥ Orunodoi 2.0 is launched by which of the following states?---- assam
⬥ Who is often referred to asthe "Mother of Modern Bharatanatyam"?---- Rukmini Devi Arundale
⬥ Which country hosted the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup 2022?----. India
⬥ Proposed by Lord Lytton, then viceroy of India (governed 1876-80), the act was intended to prevent the vernacular press from expressing criticism of British policies—notably, the opposition that had grown with the outset of the Second (1878-80). --> Anglo-Afghan War
⬥ Who of the following was one of the stalwarts of a renaissance in Koodiyattam?----. Ammannur Madhava Chakyar
⬥ In which of the following years, NABARD sanctions Action Research Project to MYRADA?----. 1987
⬥ According to the 2011 Census of India, at all India level, the adult (15 + years) literacy rate is - > 69.3 percent
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Dipika Pallikal Karthik?---- Squash
⬥ Which of the following is the SI unit of temperature?----. Kelvin (K) 31⬥ Ustad Zakir Hussain plays  Tabla
⬥ Which of the following is example of White Goods?----, Air Conditioners and LED Lights 27/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ Which state is famous for Dandiya-ras dance?---- Gujarat
⬥ Each game in table tennis consists of how many points?---- 1) Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India launched e-Shram portal (eshram.gov.in) on 26th August
⬥ ——— --> 2021
⬥ What is the total literacy rate of Bihar according to the 2011 census of India?----, 61.8 percent Under the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), in Chhattisgarh, how many candidates
⬥ have been trained as on August 01, 2023? --> 61,199 The Palaeolithic period extends from 2 million years ago to about 12,000 years ago. This long stretch of time is divided
⬥ into the Lower, Middle and Upper Palaeolithic. This long span of time covers percent of human history. > 99 Read the following about the Green Revolution in India. A. The revolution was launched to address India’s hunger crisis during the second Five Year Plan. B. The long term objectives included overall agriculture modernization based on rural development, industrial development; infrastructure, raw material ete:
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. =~ Both AandB choreographed famous song ‘Kahe Chhed Mohe’ from the movie Devdas and *‘Mohe Rang Do Laal’ from
⬥ Bajirao Mastani. -> Pandit Birju Maharaj
⬥ Which Indian has won two Oscars in the same year?---- 4 R Rahman
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Mithali Raj?---- cricket
⬥ How,is the poverty line in India typically determined?----. Levels of income and consumption Which of the following five year plan of India aimed at accelerating food grain production, increasing employment
⬥ opportunities & raising productivity with focus on ‘food, work & productivity’? --> Seventh Five year Plan
⬥ In 2023, which Indian-origin scientist won the Spinoza Prize, also known as the Dutch Nobel Prize?---- Joyeeta Gupta
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Jasprit Bumrah?----. Cricket
⬥ Which of following tribes celebrates the Rongker festival?---- Karbi 32⬥ Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions oath or affirmation by the Governor?----. article 159
⬥ In humans sound is produced by voice box. What is the other name used for voice box?---- Larynx The Rowlatt Act of 1919 granted the British colonial government the power to arrest and detains Indians without trial.
⬥ Who was the British Viceroy of India at that time? > Lord Chelmsford
⬥ The election of the Constituent Assembly of India was held in + o> July 1946 Read the following about Liabilities. A. Liabilities for any firm are its debts or what it owes to others. B. For a bank, the main liability is the deposits which people keep with it.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. _-> Both AandB 27/02/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ Who among the following was the second ruler of the Mauryan empire?---- pindusara The decennial Census is conducted by the Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner belonging to
⬥- > which ministry? > Ministry of Home Affairs Who has achieved a historic milestone by becoming the second. woman officer from the medical branch of the Indian
⬥ Air Force (IAF) to attain the esteemed rank of Air Marshal, in October 2023? --> Air Marshal Sadhna $ Nair
⬥ What is the term for the playing area in a game of basketball?---- Court Which classical dance-drama from Kerala is renowned for its vibrant makeup, elaborate costumes, and exaggerated
⬥ facial expressions, often depicting stories from the Ramayana? > Kathakali
⬥ In the secondary sector, what kinds of activities are typically carried out?---- Producing finished products from raw materials Which is the highest civilian award in the state of Tamil Nadu, India, to recognize artists in the state for their
⬥ achievements? --> Kalaimamani
⬥ refers to buying and selling of bonds issued by the Government.----, Open Market Operations In badminton, a quick wrist and forearm rotation that surprises an opponent by changing an apparently soft shot into a
⬥ faster passing one: used primarily on the serve and at the net is known as > flick
⬥ Who among the following had written the National anthem of Bangladesh 'Amar Sonar Bangla’?----, Rabindranath Tagore
⬥ Which of the following parts of the Indian Constitution deals with Amendment of the Constitution?---- part xx
⬥ Which festival is traditionally associated with the practice of Jallikattu?---- Pongal 33In Charles Law: A) Pressure is kept constant B) Number of moles of gas is constant
⬥ C) Volume is directly proportional to temperature---- A,B, C are true The Pharmacy (Amendment) Bill, 2023 was passed in Lok Sabha in August, 2023. It amends the Pharmacy Act,
⬥ ——— 1948
⬥ Which of the following Union Territories of India has the highest sex ratio as per the 2011 census of India?---- Puducherry
⬥ Which of the following ground hosted the final of the Ranji Trophy 2022/23?---- Eden Gardens India became self-sufficient in food-grains and had sufficient stock in the central pool, even,at times. India was in a
⬥ position to export food-grains, because of Revolution. Green
⬥ In which year was the Vernacular Press Act passed in India?---- 137g The Indian political system is often described as a federal system witha strong unitary bias. Which feature gives it this
⬥ unitary bias? -> Single citizenship Which government has announced the launch of the Mukhya Mantri Shramik Kalyan Yojana (MMSKY) as part of the
⬥ National Labour Day celebrations? -> Arunachal Pradesh 27/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ Who has written the book 'The philosophy of the bomb?'---- Bhagwati charan Vohra According to the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO), the unemployment rate for individuals aged 15 years and
⬥ above in urban areas decreased to during January-March 2023 from 8.2 percent a year ago. > 6.8%
⬥ Which of the following device is used to measure the distance travelled by the vehicle?---- odometer
⬥ A government governs within the bounds established by constitutional law and citizen rights.---- democratic
⬥ In____, the Planning Commission was set up with the Prime Minister as its Chairperson.----, 950
⬥ The term "CRR" in the context of Indian banking stands for:---- Cash Reserve Ratio
⬥ “Bathukammas’ is associated with which of the following states?---- Telangana
⬥ Who was founder of the Agra Gharana?---- Khuda Baksh
⬥ What is a "maiden over" in cricket? _.5 An over with no runs scored by the batsman
⬥ As per 2011 Census Hindus form 79.80% with a population of - _-> over 90 crores 34  Failure of Third Plan that of the devaluation of rupee (to boost exports) along with inflationary recession led to
⬥ postponement of Fourth FYP and therefore Annual Plans were introduced instead. _-> three
⬥ In , the All India Kabaddi Federation came into existence and compiled standard rules.---- 1959
⬥ The languages spoken in Jharkhand and parts of central India mainly belong to which of the following language family? --> Austro-Asiatic family
⬥ Pasumarthy Ramalinga Sastry is associated with which of the following dance style?---- Kuchipudi
⬥ Who unveiled the statue of the late Nathuram Mirdha in Nagaur, Rajasthan?---- vice president
⬥ Which country did Indian football team defeat to win the Intercontinental Cup 2023?---- Lebanon
⬥ Jawara dance is a popular folk dance of - > Madhya Pradesh In November 2023, which Indian skydiver jumped from a helicopter from a height of 21,500 feet in front of the world's
⬥ highest peak Mount Everest? --> Shital Mahajan
⬥ Right to freedom of speech and expression is given under:---- article.19
⬥ Namo Shetkari Mahasanman Yojana was launched by the stateof - —---- Maharashtra https://play.google.com/store/apps/details ?id=com.revolution.education Al : S thi = t Recorded \ ONLY videos based on ths ALI j e C Ss latest pattern S ndity Dedicated Telegram Group for Doubts and iy Weekly discussion aes with teachers Class PDF | Doubt Solving | PYQs  28/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ In India, “APEDA” is related to which of the following?---- Agriculture
⬥ As of July 2023, who has become the second longest serving Chief Minister of an Indian states?---- Naveen Patnaik Who was the renowned Indian Carnatic singer and the first artist to receive both the Bharat Ratna and the Ramon
⬥---> 3 Magsaysay Award? MS Subbulakshmi
⬥ What was India's literacy rate at the time of independence in 1947?---- 104 Read the following about the impact of Green Revolution in India. A. India became self-sufficient in food-grains and had sufficient stock in the central pool, even, at times, India was in a position to export food-grains. B. The per capita net availability of food-grains has also increased.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. > Both AandB
⬥ Which Law of Newton states that for every action (force) in nature there is an equal and opposite reaction?---- 3.4
⬥ is the first Indian dancer, a transgender, to be honoured with Padma Shri.---- Narthaki Nataraj
⬥ Article 163 of the Indian Constitution is related to which of the following?----. Council of Ministers to aid and advise Governor Every year the Flamingo festival is.celebrated at the Pulicat Lake near the Nellapattu Bird Sanctuary located in
⬥ ——— > Andhra Pradesh
⬥ The Constituent Assembly of India was set up in which year?---- 1946 has been invited as the chief guest for India's Republic Day celebrations 2023, marking the first time for this
⬥ nation's President to receive this honour. - > Abdel Fattah El-Sisi
⬥ Ghoomar dance is associated with which of the following states?---- Rajasthan Gautama Buddha decided to find his own path to realisation, and meditated for days on end under a tat
⬥ Bodh Gaya in Bihar. > Peepal
⬥ Which of the following won the maximum number of total medals in the National Games 2023?---- Maharashtra
⬥ The spring festival of Holi is celebrated as Yaoshang by the Meitei tribe in the state of , lasting about six days.----, Manipur 36⬥ Which sport is the Wimbledon trophy associated with?---- tawn Tennis
⬥ The Sixth Economic Census of India was conducted in which of the following years?---- 2913 Which measure captures the difference between the government's total expenditure and total receipts, excluding Q. 18) borrowing? > Fiscal Deficit
⬥ Which of the following Acts allowed detention of political prisoners without trial for two years?---- Rowlatt Act
⬥ In table tennis, a serve that hits the net but still goes over and lands in the opponent's service area is called a:---- Tet 28/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ Under the Industrial Policy Resolution 1956, industries in India have been classified into how many categories?---- Three
⬥ What dancing style was M.K. Saroja, who passed away in June 2022, well known for?----“Bharatanatyam What is the sex ratio of early childhood (0-6 years) according to the 2011 census of India (Females per Thousand
⬥- > Males)? --> 918 The Government of India recently renamed the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award as the Khel Ratna
⬥ Award. --> Major Dhyan Chand
⬥ Decathlon which is organised for men includes events..v.. 10
⬥ Which of the following was the 14th Census of India? 599,
⬥ Independence Day is celebrated at the national level at in Delhi.---- Red Fort
⬥ The Green revolution started in the year 1965 and the five-year plan of India was between 1961-66.----. third
⬥ Ashoka’s dhamma worship of a god, or performance of a sacrifice.----. did not involve
⬥ ATM booths come undemwhich sector of the economic activity?----. Tertiary Sector The Board of Control of Cricket (BCCI) has appointed as the chairman of the Senior Men’s Cricket
⬥ Selection Committee in 2023 > Ajit Agarkar Which of the following statements is correct regarding Green Revolution? I. Green Revolution made India self-reliant in foodgrain production.
⬥ II. Post Green Revolution, there is decrease in the use of chemical fertilizers.---- Only I
⬥ Who among the following social reformers founded the Self Respect Movement?---- Periyar
⬥ Who has been appointed as the new Vice Chief of the Indian Air Force on January 30, 2023?----. Amarpreet Singh 37Which state government launched the Mukhyamantri Nishulk Annapurna Food Packet Scheme on Independence Day in
⬥ 2023? --> Rajasthan Elements in the Modern Periodic Table are arranged in vertical columns called groups and horizontal
⬥ rows called periods. > 18,7
⬥ Which country won the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup 2022?---- Spain
⬥ According to the Indian Constitution, how many organs are there in the government of India?----. Three
⬥ Which instrument is played by the famous music personality Pt. Shiv Kumar Sharma?---- santoor
⬥ ‘Tippani Nritya’ is associated with which of the following states?---- Gujarat 28/02/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM) Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions that the State shall maintain just and honourable
⬥ relations between nations? --> Article 51
⬥ is a form of matter in which many of the electrons wander around freely among the nuclei of the atoms.----, Plasma
⬥ In India, the is the legislative branch of governance; it is in charge of formulating laws.---- parliament Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has so far presented four union budgets. She became woman till now to Q. 4)- _ achieve this feat.( January 2023) > first
⬥ What is the total rural literacy rate-according to the 1951 census of India?----. 12.1 percent
⬥ Which of the following is the unique dance tradition of Himachal Pradesh?---- Nati
⬥ Which sport is related with AFC Challenge Cup?---- Football
⬥ What is the fullform of NEIA? ..> National Export Insurance Account Which of the following statements is correct regarding Capital Expenditure? I Capital expenditure result in creation of physical or financial assets or reduction in financial liabilities.
⬥ II. Non-plan capital expenditure covers various general, social and economic services provided by the government.----, Both I and II
⬥ Which of these artists is a Manipuri dance style doyenne?---- Rajkumar Singhajit Singh
⬥ In chess, what piece has the least value in terms of points?---- King
⬥ When a person seems to be working, but their work is not contributing to the output, it is known as oS Disguised unemployment 38⬥ Who of the following was invented and popularized Mohan Veena?----. pt. Vishwa Mohan Bhat
⬥ Nandini Krishak Samriddhi Yojna 2023 is associated with which of the following?---- ygiik In the Union Budget 2021-22, presented on Ist February 2021, the Finance Minister of India announced an outlay of
⬥ INR 1.97 Lakh Crores for the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) Schemes for key sectors. > 13
⬥ In which year was the Rowlatt Act passed in India?----. jo 49 Which Indian cricketer has been announced as Brand Ambassador of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd.(BPCL) in
⬥ August 2023? > Rahul! Dravid
⬥ The duration of a kabaddi match is of how many minutes (excluding break time) ?----. 40 minutes
⬥ Mauryan Empire in India was established in 322 B.C. with its capital in Pataliputra which is now known as --> Patna
⬥- > In which of the following states of India is the festival Baisakhi celebrated? _-S Punjab 28/02/2024-> (5:00 PM -.6:00,PM) Which of the following pair of sports persons — sports associated with is correct? I. Pooja Vastrakar — Shooting
⬥ II. Kuldeep Yadav — Cricket _-> Only II
⬥ Which of the following is the last five year plan of India?---- twelfth
⬥ ——___ is swim on the back in swimming:__. Backstroke
⬥ Who is regarded as the founding father of modern economics?---- adam Smith
⬥ Philosophers classified matter in the form of how many basic elements?---- 5
⬥ The portion of agricultural produce which is sold in the market by the farmers is called marketed surplus
⬥ can be played indoors or outdoors.----, Volleyball
⬥ The Dandi March, led by Mahatma Gandhi in 1930, was a significant protest against which British policy?---- salt tax
⬥ The last and tirthankara of the Jainas was Vardhamana Mahavira.----. 34% Which dance form from West Bengal combines elements of classical dance with martial arts, and its movements often
⬥ depict stories from Indian mythology? => Chhau
⬥ The government of India to introduced a new economic policy in _-> 1991 39Which maestro of the tabla, a percussion instrument, is regarded as one of the greatest musicians in the world and has Q.12} collaborated with numerous international artists? -- > Zakir Hussain In India, the total number of members in the Legislative Council of a State having such a Council shall not exceed
⬥ of the total number of members in the Legislative Assembly of that State. > one-third
⬥ T. Balasaraswati is related to which of the following dance?----, Bharatnatyam
⬥ When the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act passed?---- 3919
⬥ Who has been appointed as the first woman Chairperson of the Railway Board?---- Jaya Varma Sinha
⬥ Articles 14 to 18 of the Indian Constitution mention provisions related to which of the following rights?----. Right to Equality
⬥ What is the sex ratio in India as per the 2011 census (Females per Thousand Males)? . _.943 represents a potential for further intellectual growth and contribution to. economic-socio-cultural
⬥ development of society. > Literacy Who has won the prestigious ‘Eni Award,’ which is considered among the top global honours for scientific research in
⬥ energy and environment in July 2023? -> Thalappil Pradeep 40 29/02/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ Non-metals, are electronegative. They tend to form bonds by electrons.---- gaining
⬥ Which sport term is not associated with Cricket?---- Sprint
⬥ Who has been recently appointed as the Vice Chief of the Indian Air Force in January 2023?----. Amar Préet Singh Renowned for her Odissi dancing style, is an eminent Indian Classical dancer. She founded the Centre for
⬥ .--> Indian Classical Dances in New Delhi and was honoured with the Padma Bhushan in 1992. --> Sonal Mansingh
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Navjot Kaur?----. Hockey
⬥ Transportation and storage falls under which sector of economic activity? _/. Tertiary Sector Which of the following is NOT one of the eight core industries in India? I. Coal
⬥ IL. Crude Oil --> Neither I nor II
⬥ The state of has launched *Chavath e Bazaar‘ initiative in the month of September 2023.---- Goa
⬥ According to Census 2011, which of the following North-Eastern states have the highest literacy rate?---- fizoram
⬥ Which among the following country is not a neighbouring country of India?---- Japan
⬥ What is the term for the policy of replacing or substituting imports with domestic production?----. Import substitution
⬥ In which year, Alexanderinvaded India?---- 396 Bc
⬥ The Ashtapadis of jayadeva’s Geeta Govinda are sung and danced in which of the following dance form?---- Manipuri
⬥ The Ossuary feast festival is celebrated in which of the following states/UTs?---- Andaman and Nicobar Islands
⬥ Which former Prime Minister of India has been conferred Lifetime Achievement Honour in UK? -- Dr. Manmohan Singh ___» Inchess, what is a "stalemate"?---- A player's king has no legal moves, resulting in a draw ⬥ > API) 2 g g
⬥ Writ petition can be filed in the Supreme Court of India under:---- article 32
⬥ Article 19(1) (b) of the Indian Constitution is related to which of the following?----, To assemble peaceably and without arms 41Who of the following was receiver of Bharat Ratna award? I. Lata Mangeshkar
⬥ II. Bhupen Hazarika _-> Both I and II
⬥ The Federation of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) was formed in + > 1927 29/02/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥--> The United Nations designates as the “International Year of Micro Credit’.---- s995
⬥ Janardan Prasad has been appointed as the new Director General of the in June 2023?---- Geological Survey of India (GSI)
⬥ Who of following was Mohiniyattam doyenne who died in February 2023?---- Kanak Rele
⬥ In swimming, how many "false start" warnings are there?---- 9 Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions 'Special address, by the Governor to the State
⬥ Legislature’? > Article 176
⬥ According to 2011 census of India, what is the urban population as percentage of total population?---- 31.2 percent has been appointed as the new head of India's external spy agency ,Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) in June,
⬥---> 2023. _ > Ravi Sinha
⬥ Who among the following hosted the ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2022?---- australia
⬥ Which of the following is the time period of the First Five year Plan?----. 1951. 1956
⬥ The Fundamental Rights is mentioned in which Part of the Indian Constitution?---- part mr
⬥ What is the total percentage of the Christian population according to the 2011 Census of India?---- 2.3 percent
⬥ Which scheme is not launched by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare in 2023?----, Mid-Day meal
⬥ New, Foreign Trade Policy has been launched on 3 1st March, 2023 and came in to effect from , 2023.---- ist April Which ancient text, attributed to the sage Vyasa, is a central epic of ancient India and consists of 100,000 verses in 18
⬥ parvas (books)? . > Mahabharata
⬥ Indian composer whose extensive body of work for film and stage earned him the nickname “the Mozart of Madras.” __ > AR Rahman
⬥ Indian Muslims launched the Khilafat Movement under the leadership of ; popularly known as the Ali brothers. --> Mohammad Ali and Shaukat Ali 42⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Aparna Popat?----. Badminton
⬥ Baisakhi is the festival of -----, Haryana
⬥ What is the other name for solid carbon dioxide? -_5 Dry ice
⬥ “Yakshagana’ is associated with which of the following states?---- Karnataka 29/02/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ In which year was the Arms Act passed in India?---- 1378
⬥ Akham Lakshmi Devi receives the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for her contribution to Dances... Manipuri
⬥ In the First seven five-year plan, in India trade was characterized by what is commonly called.an strategy.---- inward looking trade
⬥ Crossover Dribble is mainly associated with - _-> Basketball permits non-government entities (NGEs) to offer national and international space-based communication
⬥ services. --> The Indian Space Policy-2023 unveiled a 12 feet high statue of the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi and a 'Gandhi Vatika' at Gandhi
⬥ Darshan in New Delhi in September 2023. > President of India In June 2023, The Ministry of recently announced that the Gandhi Peace Prize for 2021 will be
⬥ conferred upon Gita Press, Gorakhpur. > Culture has announced his new political party ' Democratic Azad Party’ and also released his party flag. (September
⬥ 2022) > Ghulam Nabi Azad
⬥ Till 1993-94, the poverty line in India was based on URP data. What does 'URP' stand for?---- Uniform Reference Period
⬥ Annit diwan cup is associated with - > Badminton Which of the following is correctly matched with respected to the persons and related to their musical instruments? I, U Srinivas — Mandolin
⬥ I. Bismillah Khan — Shehnai --> Both I and II
⬥ Around which of the following year did the Green Revolution begin in India?---- jo¢6
⬥ Which of following festivals is associated with Gujarat?---- ygodhera Dance Festival What is the term used to describe the ability of the Constitution to adapt and grow over time to meet the changing needs
⬥ of society? --> Flexible 43 rE 
⬥ How many vertical columns are present in the modern periodic table?---- jg
⬥ is a famous Indian folk dance, which is conducted during the Bihu festival in Assam.---- pinu Dance
⬥ Which country hosts the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup?---- Malaysia
⬥ A handball match lasts fora totalof___s minutes.----. 6
⬥ In India within the legislative branch are the houses of parliament.----. two
⬥ What is the literacy rate among females in India according to the Literacy Rate 2011 census?---- 65 46% 29/02/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ Pt. Ravi Shankar, Shahid Parvez Khan, Budhaditya Mukherjee, Anushka Shankar, are associated with sitar
⬥ The legendary Kuchipudi dancer Dr. Raja Reddy referred to one of the following as a*Kaliyuga Satyabhama’?---- Sobha Naidu
⬥ The of a firm during a year = production of the firm during the year — sale of the firm during the year.---- change of inventories
⬥ In which Indian state is the International Lusophone Festival'.hosted?----. Goa
⬥ During the ancient period in India, the term ‘sandhi-vigrahika* was used to refer to which of the following?---- Minister of war and peace
⬥ A handball team consists of players. . “3.7
⬥ Which city hosted the 2022 Commonwealth Games?---- Birmingham
⬥ As of October 2023, who is the central vigilance commissioner of India?---- praveen Kumar Srivastava
⬥ Which team won the Sultan of Johor Cup 2023?---- Germany
⬥ India, also known as,Bharat, is a :----. Union of states
⬥ Who established India's first girl's school?----. savitribai Phule Q.1 2)- -& The Indian Constitution guarantees Universal Adult Franchise for all its + > citizens
⬥ Which of the following elements is a part of the P block of the periodic table?---- Oxygen This legendary Kathak dancer, known for his innovative and modern approach to the dance form, is often referred to as
⬥ the "Emperor of Kathak." Who is he? --> Birju Maharaj
⬥ Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the National Sickle Cell Anemia Elimination Mission 2047 in Lalpur village of (July 2023). > Madhya Pradesh 44  
⬥ Which of the following is the time period of the Tenth Five Year Plan?----. 3992 2007
⬥ The Census of 1881 which was undertaken on 17th February, 1881 by + > W.C. Plowden
⬥ In India, the Green Revolution was mainly led by - _-> M.S. Swaminathan The Office of the Registrar General and Census Commissioner comes under which of the following ministries of
⬥ Government of India --> Ministry of Home Affairs
⬥ The repeals the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC).----. Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita Bill 45  Your life, Your hard work, Your SUEEBEs PF Revolution by Education 01/03/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ Where was the first Asian Games held in 1951? --> New Delhi, India
⬥ Who was the founder of the Khudai Khidmatgars?---- Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan
⬥ Which dance style does Geeta Mahlik have a reputation for?---- ogissi
⬥ Which dancing form is classified as Ekaharya?----. Bharatnatyam Which of the following pair is correctly matched in context of person and related to their musical instrument? I. Totaram Sharma — Pakhawaj
⬥ Il. Zakir Hussain — Flute --> Only I
⬥ In the context of the Indian census, what is the definition of the literacy percentage? __ The percentage of people aged seven and above, who can read and write in any language Viksit Bharat Sankalp Yatra campaign was flagged off by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on November 15, 2023, at
⬥--> -> Khunti, Jharkhand Which of the following is the SI unit of velocity?----ms ⬥
⬥ > In which of the following Schedule of the Indiam Constitution the ‘Concurrent List' is given? _-> 7th
⬥ Which of the following is NOT a Directive Principles of State Policy mentioned in the Indian Constitution?---- Separation of legislature from executive
⬥ Which Mauryan ruler was the grandson of Chandragupta Maurya?----. ashoka
⬥ In which of the following state, Hornbill Festival is celebrated?---- Nagaland Union Minister announces India’s first indigenously developed vaccine,“CERVAVAC” for the prevention of
⬥ cervical cancer.(September 2022) --> Dr. Jitendra Singh
⬥ What is the meaning of term ‘Kathak’?----, Story-tellers
⬥ National Sport of Pakistan is:----. Field Hockey
⬥ Basketball has two teams, consist of players on each team.----, Five
⬥ Which government department is responsible for implementing the VAIBHAV Fellowship Scheme?---- Ministry of Science and Technology 46⬥ With respect to economic planning in India, the Bombay Plan was published in how many parts ?---- Tyo According to the data of 2011-12, which of the following is the poverty rate of bihar? (approximate) ⬥ -> 33.7%
⬥ The five year plan of India could not take off in 1990 due to the fast changing political situation at the Centre. __ > Eighth 01/03/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ According to the 2011 census, which of the following states is the least populated state in India?---- sikkim
⬥---> Gully in cricket is the position----_., between point and slip
⬥ Tulip festival is related to which of the following state/UTs?---- Jammu & Kashmir The Doctrine of Lapse was devised by Governor General ⬥ ——— .-> Lord Dalhousie There is a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minster as its head to advice the who is the constitutional
⬥ head of the India. --> President
⬥ Dr. Norman Borlaug, a Nobel laureate, is known for his contributions to: Agriculture and food production "To abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions, the National Flag and the National Anthem" It is a
⬥ mentioned in the Indian Constitution. > Fundamental Duties
⬥ Which Gupta ruler was known for defeating the Sakas in western regions, assuming the title of "Vikramaditya'?---- Chandragupta-II
⬥ Who has been selected as the new World Bank President in May2023? _-> Ajay Banga
⬥ Jatin Goswami received seyeral awards for his contribution to which dance style?---- Sattriya
⬥ In India, the dependency ratio of children is a measure of the number of dependents aged + > Oto 14 is an asset that the borrower owns (such as land, building, vehicle, livestock, deposits with banks) and uses
⬥ this as a guarantee to a lender until the loan is repaid. --> Collateral
⬥ The number of oscillations per second is called----of oscillation.----, frequency
⬥ Aga Khan Cup' is associated with the gameof____,. Hockey
⬥ For which of the following swimming events does the swimmers start in the water, facing the wall of the pool?---- Backstroke
⬥ Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia, is a world-renowned exponent of the + o> bansuri
⬥ Which dance style is incorporated with both the Tandava and Lasya?---- Manipuri 47How many Vande Bharat trains were flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conferencing on
⬥- > September 24, 2023? --> Nine
⬥ Which sector of the economy focuses on intellectual activities and innovation?---- Quaternary Sector The Ministry of Finance has recently launched the Mahila Samman Savings Certificate, oy 2023 ⬥ 01/03/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ Who has been nominated as Ambassador for War Against Waste in Jammu and Kashmir, in September 2023?---- Bana Singh
⬥ The X-ring on the archery target isthe----inner ring.---- joth
⬥ What is the primary purpose of a government budget in a country's economy?----. Allocating resources efficiently
⬥ The Iron Age in India is associated with the period, which lasted from about 1500 to 500 BCE.---- vedic
⬥ Who of the following received Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for his contribution to Sattriya dance?----, Tankeswar Hazarika Borbayan
⬥ India's population pyramid, with a wide base and narrower top, suggests what type of population structure?---- Expansive The Jallianwala Bagh Massacre took place in Amritsar in 1919, during which policy or act that allowed the British to
⬥ arrest and imprison Indians without trial? --> Rowlatt Act
⬥ Which of the following Indian stadium is renowned as a major venue for hockey matches?---- Kalinga Stadium With respect to the Anusandhan National Research Foundation Bill, 2023, who will audit the accounts of the
⬥ Anusandhan National Research Foundation annually? _-> CAG In India, the miay create and dissolve any of the union territories, whose powers are more limited than
⬥ those of the states. --> Union Government
⬥ A fast and low shot in badminton that makes a horizontal flight over the net is known as _-> drive
⬥ Sexzatio is used to describe the number of females per males.----. 1000
⬥ ‘Matho Nagrang’ is associated with which of the following states/UTs?---- Tadakh
⬥ With what musical instrument is Ustad Binda Khan associated? --> Sarangi
⬥ Fundamental Rights are contained in of the Constitution of India.---- part mr
⬥ In the first phase of the Green Revolution, which states primarily benefited from the use of HYV seeds?----, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu 48Consider the following statements : A)A gas that follows Boyle’s law, Charles’ law and Avogadro law is called an ideal gas. B) As per Gay Lussac's law, at constant volume, pressure of a fixed amount of a gas varies directly with the temperature.
⬥ C) Silicon is present in group 14 and period 3 of the periodic table. A, B, C are true
⬥ How are the representatives of the Union Territories (UTs) in the Rajya Sabha elected?---- Indirectly elected by members of an electoral college
⬥ Which state has introduced an upgraded version of its poverty alleviation scheme called Orunodoi 2.0?---- assam Read the following about the Green Revolution in India. A. The Green Revolution in India is largely the Wheat Revolution as the wheat production increased by more than three times between 1967-68 and 2003-04, while the overall increase in the production of cereals was only two times B. It resulted in a grain output of 131 million tonnes in the year 1978-79 and established India as one of the world's biggest agricultural producers.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. --> BothAandB 01/03/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM) The most common tool for the Iron Age was the , which was used for felling trees, chopping wood, and as a Q. 1)- > weapon. _ > Axe
⬥ Directive Principles of State Policy in the Indian Constitution aim to create a:---- Welfare state
⬥ Which Indian state is known for the traditional dance form of Sattriya?---- scam Q. 4) > The motion of electric charges creates current and generates an electromagnetic force, resulting in Magnetism
⬥--> The Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita Bill, 2023 introduced by ministry in 2023.---- Home Affairs
⬥ The Simon Commission; appointed in 1927, was criticized in India because:---- It did not include any Indian members
⬥ Which of the following artists has won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for their contribution to Mohiniyattam?---- Gopika Verma TheGovernment of Karnataka organizes the festival every year, which features an scintillating performances of dance, drama and music, is organized amidst the rocks and ruins that date back to hundreds of years, in
⬥ the village situated near Vijaynagar. -> Hampi Dance Utsav
⬥ Who was selected as the recipient of the 41st Lokmanya Tilak Award, on Ist August 2023?----. Narendra Modi
⬥ Population Census in India is conducted within a span of---- 10 years
⬥ Sri Lanka is separated from India by a narrow channel of sea, formed by and the Gulf of Mannar.---- paik strait 49 rE  Read the following about Goods and Service Tax (GST): A. Goods and Service Tax (GST) is the single comprehensive indirect tax, operational from 1 July 2017, on supply of goods and services, right from the manufacturer/ service provider to the consumer. B. It is a destination based consumption tax with facility of Input Tax Credit in the supply chain.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. > Both AandB
⬥ In which sport is a "puck" used?----. ice-hockey
⬥ As per which article of the Indian Constitution, the Lok Sabha is the lower House of the parliament?---- 79 Which of the following pair of cricket tournament run by BCCI and its type is correct? I. Vijay Hazare Trophy — List A matches
⬥ II. Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy — T20 matches _-» Both Land I
⬥ With respect to trade and industry, what does 'DPIIT' stand for?---- Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade
⬥ Amjad Ali Khan is music exponent of + > Sarod
⬥ Which city hosted the Intercontinental Cup 2023 which was won by the Indian football team?---- Bhubaneswar
⬥ KN. Shanth Kumar was elected chairman of which body from September 2023?---- pry
⬥ Which of the following is NOT one of the pillars in the Key Approach to the Foreign Trade Policy 2023 of India?---- Restriction to imports 50 rE  05/03/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ Who among the following received Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for his contribution to tribal dance Baiga? __ Arjun Singh Dhurwey
⬥ The National Savings (Monthly Income Account) Scheme, 2019 has been amended through National Savings (Monthly Income Account) (Amendment) Scheme, 2023
⬥ The finance commission of India consist of a chairman and - > 4 members
⬥ Swami Dayanand Saraswati was the founder of which of the following reform association? »_.. Arya Samaj The actor’s performance in a plays is completely speechless, the stofy isenacted using a vocabulary of
⬥ facial expressions and hand-gestures. > Kathakali
⬥ On which date, Major Dhyanchand's birthday is celebrated as National Sports Day in India?----. 29th August
⬥ Which of the following Indian cities is associated with the Sangam literature?---- fadurai
⬥ Shakoor Khan and Pt. Ram Narayan are associated with which musical instrument?---- Sarangi
⬥ Which of the following is the time period of the Sixth five year plan?---- j980-1985
⬥ Which island exists between India and Srilanka? --> Kachchatheevu
⬥ “Ambubachi Mela” is associated with which of the following state?---- scam Q.1 2)- > Fromthe _—_ budget, the practice of showing budget deficit has been discontinued in India. _-> 1997-98
⬥ Who was the father of green revolution in India?---- \ys swaminathan Name the 2023 Padma Vibhushan awardee who has served as an External Affairs Minister and Karnataka Chief
⬥ Minister, --> Somanahalli Mallaiah Krishna If the ball, delivered by the bowler, not being a Wide, passes the striker without touching his/her bat or person, any runs
⬥ completed by the batters from that delivery, or a boundary allowance, shall be credited as --> Byes
⬥ Who is appointed as the new DGCA Chief in January 2023?---- Vikram Dev Dutt
⬥ Which of the following is NOT a p block element of the periodic table?----. Magnesium 51Which of the following pair of sports persons — sports associated with is correct? I. Shefali Verma — Cricket
⬥ II. Sushil Kumar — Wrestling _-» Both I and II
⬥ As per 2011 Census, which of the following religions has the least population?---- jainism
⬥ Article 39A of the Indian Constitution deals with: --> Flegal aid 05/03/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ Which of the following won the Raja Bhalindra Singh Trophy in the National Games 2023?----. aharashtra
⬥ Election Commission of Indiaisa____----- constitutional body Who is the second woman officer from the medical branch of the Indian Air Force (IAF) to attain the esteemed rank of
⬥ Air Marshal? - > Air Marshal Sadhna S$ Nair
⬥ Newlands law of octaves was only applicable upto which element?---- cq
⬥ The Right against self-incrimination fundamental right ensures that;----, no person can be compelled to be a witness against themselves.
⬥ Which was the first bank established in India in 1770? _> Bank Of Hindustan
⬥ Generally, the sex ratios have been calculated as the proportion of females to males.----. 1000 Who was the social reformer and political leader who championed women's rights and played a significant role in the
⬥ Widow Remarriage Act of 1856? --> Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar
⬥ What was the target growthrate of the first five-year plan in India?----, 2.1 percent ___s Rapid industrialization was the main objective of which of the following five-year plans of India?----Q.10} *4P. ) ig year p > Second five-year Plan
⬥ According to the 2011 Census of India, the growth rate of population of Hindus was + _.> 16.8 percent
⬥ Which of the following Indian Classical dancers was the youngest to receive the Padma Bhushan?---- Sonal Mansingh
⬥ Asad Ali Khan is associated with which of the following musical instruments?---- Rudra Veena ___s In freestyle wrestling, in which of the following situation does a wrestler is provided with 3 points?----⬥ y 8 ig Pp p > Bringing the opponent into immediate danger
⬥ Who was the flag bearer for the opening ceremony of the Asian Games 2018?---- Neeraj Chopra _._s Pongal is a four-day-long harvest festival, which is celebrated at the harvest of crops like sugarcane and _ Q.1 6) > g y-tong P: rt > Rice
⬥ From which state, the performing art 'Ottamthullal' belongs?----. Kerala 52⬥ Which of the following Indian states has launched LAccMI scheme in 2023?----. Odisha
⬥---> Who among the following is the Deputy National Security advisor appointed in January 2023? _-> Pankaj Kumar Singh
⬥ The Empire was established in 322/321 B.C. by the great king Chandragupta.----. Mauryan 05/03/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ Which Five-Year Plan of India was known as the "Mahalanobis Plan"? -.> Second Five-Year Plan The period from the decline of the Mauryas to the rise of the Guptas (2nd century BCE to 3rd century CE) is known in
⬥ Indian historyasthe period. > Post —- Mauryan
⬥ Which Indian dancer won the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for Manipuri Dance in 2018?----oakdany Lakshmi Devi Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced Atmanirbhar Clean Plant Programme with an outlay of
⬥ to boost availability of disease-fand quality planting material for high value horticultural crops.----, Rs 2,200 crore
⬥ Which of the following is a dance form of Assam?----. Binu
⬥ Most of Ashoka’s inscriptions were in language and were written in the script.---- Prakrit, Brahmi Which of the following statement is ‘true’ for ‘dobereiner’s triads’? I. Triads were in order of atomic masses.
⬥ II. Atomic mass of middle element was rouglily the average of atomic masses of other two elements.---- Both I and I
⬥ Which of the following sectors is the most labour absorbing sector of the economy?----, Agriculture
⬥ What does "LBW" stand for in oficket? -_5 Leg Before Wicket In January 2023, who has been appointed as the Director General in the Directorate of General of Civil Aviation
⬥ (PGCA)? --> Vikram Dev Dutt
⬥ Which of the following has invented the musical instrument Bamhum and Tikzik?---- Moa Subong
⬥ Who won the ICC ODI World Cup 2011?---- India
⬥ According to Constitution of India a governor can be appointed---- for two or more states
⬥ From which date, Indian Financial year begins?----. Ist April
⬥ The first census of Independent India was conducted in 1951, which was the census in its continuous series. seventh
⬥ Which of the following is NOT one of the fundamental rights mentioned in the Indian Constitution?---- Right to exploitation
⬥ What is the time period of the rolling plan during the five-year plan in India?---- 197g — 0 53⬥ Credit of invention of the Chess game goes to:----, India In July 2023, who has been awarded the British Prime Minister’s Points of Light award for volunteering several
⬥ sustainability initiatives, including raising funds for children, since the age of three? > Moksha Roy
⬥ In which of the following states is the festival Vishu celebrated?---- Kerala 05/03/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM)
⬥ Certain fielding restrictions in cricket during few overs are known as + _-> power play
⬥ In the Indian subcontinent, the beginning of settlement at Mehrgarh started about__years ago.----go90
⬥ “Kuchipudi’ classical dance form is associated with which of the following states?---- andhra Pradesh
⬥ —— is the main festival of Karnataka, which marks the Kannada new year.----, Ugadi
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Bhakti Sharma?---- swimming
⬥ Who is Maharashtra's second deputy chief minister as on October 2023?---- Ajit Pawar
⬥ In the Population Census of 2011, the sex ratio inIndiais___—sfemales per 1000 males.----. 943
⬥ Who among the following won the ICC Men's T20 World Cup 2022?---- England Read the following about the supply of Money. A. Ina modern economy, money comprises cash and bank deposits. B. These are created by a system comprising two types of institutions: central bank of the economy and the commercial banking system.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements, > Both AandB
⬥ In which of the following years was the Bombay High Court of India established?----. 1g62
⬥ India got its central bank in which year?---- 1935
⬥ Haddu khan and Hassu Khan were regarded as great masters of which style?---- Khyal
⬥ Bangladesh does not share land border with:---- sikkim Which of the following statements is correct regarding the ninth five-year plan of India? I. The plan focused on growth with social justice and equality.
⬥ II. The time period of the ninth-five-year plan is 1997-2002. _-> Both I and II
⬥ Who was the founder of the Brahmo Samaj?----. Raja Rammohua Roy
⬥ Praveen Kumar Srivastava sworn inasthe sin May, 2023----, Central Vigilance Commissioner 54Which physical law states that the pressure and temperature of a gas are inversely proportional, provided the volume
⬥ and the number of gas molecules remain constant? > Boyle's law Various Industrialists came together in 1944 and drafted a joint proposal for setting up a planned economy in India. It is
⬥ famously known as the Plan. --> Bombay
⬥ Which state of India has the highest population density as per 2011 census?---- Bihar
⬥ Which Indian state has launched Abua Awas Yojana 2023?---- Jharkhand 55  Your life, Your hard work, Your SUEEBEs PF Revolution by Education 06/03/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ Dipika Pallikalisa_.---- squash player According to policy, instead of importing vehicles made in a foreign country, industries would be encouraged to
⬥ produce them in India itself. > import substitution
⬥ ‘Amongmong Festival’ is associated with which of the following states/UTs?---- Nagaland
⬥ Who is known as the Prince of Patriots? --> Subhash Chandra Bose
⬥ Executive power of an Indian State is vested in - _> Governor
⬥ How many players are there on a standard Kho Kho team during a match?---- 9
⬥ Ayushmann Khurrana's association with UNICEF primarily aims,to:---- support child rights and well-being Dr. Manmohan Singh was recently honored with a Lifetime Achievement Honour by which organization for his oT 1 i ith. ife? ⬥ contributions to economic and political life? > India-UK Achievers Honours
⬥ Which Indian personality is known as the Mozart of Madras?----. 4 R Rahman The objective of the "Gadgil Formula," introduced during the Fourth Five Year Plan, was to allocate plan assistance to
⬥ states based on their: -- > Population and per capita income
⬥ Which Mauryan Indian emperor is renowned for his edicts and pillars?---- ashoka
⬥ According to the 2011 census of India, which of the following states has a total literacy rate of 91.3 percent?---- Mizoram
⬥ "Strive to minimize the inequalities in income" is mentioned under of Constitution of India.---- Directive Principles
⬥ Which team won the Ranji Trophy 2022/23?---- saurashtra
⬥ Addition to the stock of capital of a firm is known as - _.> investment As per National Geospatial Policy (NGP) 2022, online courses in geospatial science & technology areas are to be made
⬥ available through iGoT platform. --> Karmayogi 56⬥ At absolute zero (0 K or -273.15°C), the particles of matter:----. Stop moving
⬥ Who among the following was well — known for their kathakali dancing?---- \sadavoor Vasudevan Nair Which government of India program provides 100 days of wage employment to households in rural areas to ensure
⬥ livelihood security? Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme
⬥ Which of the following folk dance is related to state of Maharashtra?----. Lezim 06/03/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ The growth targets for the fourth five-year plan was set with respectto__— ts----S. Net Domestic’ Product
⬥ The partition of Bengal took place in +> 1905
⬥ Specifications of the Football is: a circumference should be between - > 68 cni atid 70m This legendary Indian classical flautist is known for his mastery of the bansuri (bamboo flute) and his mesmerizing
⬥ performances. Who is he? > Hariprasad Chaurasia
⬥ HYVS in case of green revolution, stands for:----. High Yielding Variety Seeds
⬥ Of the following, which is Kumudini Lakhia most famous dancing style?---- Kathak
⬥ The Gautama Buddha taught in the language of the ordinary people, + o> Prakrit
⬥ What is the maximum strength of the Rajya Sabha,and how many members are nominated by the President?---- Maximum strength is 250, and 12 members are nominated by the President
⬥ Lakshya Sen is a player of which sport? _". Badminton
⬥ Who was the teacher of Chandragupta Maurya of the Maurya Empire?---- Kautilya In June 2023, who has been appointed as the Director of the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA)
⬥ in Vienna? --> Aarti Holla-Maini
⬥- -+ Economists call unemployment prevailing in Indian farms as unemployment.---- disguised
⬥ When something accelerates along a circular path, seeps it going in the circle.---- Centripetal force
⬥ Which of the following term used in Kathak for standing?---- That Mumbai’s Byculla Railway Station received UNESCO’s Asia Pacific Award on Monday i.e. 24th July. This
⬥ award was declared in November 2022. --> Cultural Heritage
⬥ Gugga Naumi is mainly celebrated in which of the following states?----. Haryana
⬥ In shotput, for male athletes, the metal ball weights kg.---- 7.26 57⬥ In the context of a government budget, what does the term "fiscal deficit" represent?----. The difference between government revenue and government expenditure Which feature of the Indian Constitution reflects the idea that the powers of government are divided among the
⬥ executive, legislative, and judicial branches to prevent the concentration of power? > Separation of powers Which of the following statements is correct regarding the Pradhan Mantri Vishwakarma scheme? I. Pradhan Mantri Vishwakarma scheme is a central sector scheme.
⬥ II. The scheme covers artisans and craftspeople engaged in 18 trades. _-> Both I and II 06/03/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ > Which of the following sites is situated on the river Ghod, a tributary of the Bhima? _-> Inamgaon
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Vijendra Singh?----. Boxing
⬥ The "Licence Raj" in India during the mid-20th century referred to a system of:---- Industrial licensing The proportion of GDP contributed by the industrial sector increased im the period from 11.8 per cent in 1950-51 to
⬥ per cent in 1990-91. = 24.6 The Integrated Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2023 amends the Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST)
⬥- > Act, . . -> 2017 Which of the following articles of the Indian Constitution mentions power of Governor to grant pardons, etc., and to
⬥ suspend, remit or commute sentences in certaim cases? --> Article 161
⬥ Kumumi dance is related to state of;=-> Tamil Nadu
⬥ In which year was the Interim government formed at the Centre?---- 1946
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Poulomi Ghatak?---- Table Tennis
⬥ Which country's government awarded Mallika Sarabhai the Palme D'or?---- France
⬥, Zakir Hussain is famous for: --> Tabla
⬥ What is the total population of Hindus according to the 2011 Census of India?----. 96,63 crores Read the following about balanced budget. A. The government may spend an amount equal to the revenue it collects. This is known as a balanced budget. B. If it needs to incur higher expenditure, it will have to raise the amount through taxes in order to keep the budget balanced.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. > Both A and B
⬥ Definite shape, distinct boundaries are the characteristics of which state of matter?---- solid 58⬥--->
⬥
⬥--->
⬥
⬥ Aswin Sekhar
⬥
⬥
⬥
⬥- --5
⬥
⬥
⬥---> --> Forced La Protima Gauri
⬥ In 2023, the International Astronomical Union named a minor planet after Indian meteor astronomer Which crops were primarily involved in the Green Revolution in India through the use of high-yielding variety (HYV)
⬥ seeds? 7 > Wheat and rice
⬥ India shares its land border with how many countries?
⬥ What is the function of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), with respect to monetary policy?---- Issuing currency notes
⬥ Who among the following is the Director of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission appointed in January 2023?---- Praveen Sharma
⬥ Indian Space Policy, 2023 sets the stage for participation in space industry.----, private sector
⬥ Which one is not the cause of Poverty?---- Slow growth of population
⬥ In any tennis game, first point is 15
⬥ The Nuakhai festival is mainly seen in which state?---- odisha
⬥ Nrityagram dance village. Who is she? Article 12 of the Indian Constitution provides for___-----, Definition of ‘State’ How many National Festivals does India celebrate?---- Three Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Gaurav Ghei?---- Golf Which famous personality was awarded the prestigious German Peace Prize?----. salman Rushdie Bhutan is neighbouring country of India. Which State of India shares border with Bhutan?----. West Bengal --> 06/03/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM) --> Seven , (born c. 350 BC—died c. 290), ancient Greek historian and diplomat, is author of Indica.----. Megasthenes Who of the following was famous for Punjabi folk song and for singing a long breathless alaap?---- Gurmeet Bawa Which city hosted the 2023 Asian games?----, Hangzhou How many medals did India win in the ISSF World Championships 2023 at Baku?----. 14 Rukmini Devi Arundale was associated with dance style?---- Bharatnatyam founded the Satyashodhak Samaj (Truth Seekers’ Society) in 1873.---- Iyotiba Phule According to the Indian Constitution, Right against exploitation, prohibiting all forms of and traffic in human beings. bour This famous classical dancer and choreographer is known for popularizing the Odissi dance form and founding the --> 59⬥ Watt is the unit of + --> Power
⬥ Who launched the 'Ayushman Bhava' campaign in 2023?---- Droupadi Mummu In India, the Legal Services Authorities Act, provides statutory status to the legal aid movement and it also
⬥- > provides for setting up of Legal Services Authorities at the Central, State and District levels. > 1987
⬥ With respect to trade and industry, what is 'SCOMET'?----, India’s National Export Control List 60 07/03/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ Which of the following parts of the Indian Constitution deals with Official language?---- part xvII
⬥ In October 2023, who did 24-year-old Indian grandmaster Karthikeyan Murali defeat in a chess match?----, Magnus Carlsen
⬥ The Veda Samaj was established in.----. Madras
⬥ First Asian Games were held in New Delhi, India in the year of:---- 1951
⬥ Mukhyamantri Gramin Gaadi Yojna was launched by which state of India?---- Jharkhand
⬥ The planned economic development in India began in which of the following years? _?.. 1951
⬥ The Grand Cross of the Order of Honor was conferred on inAugust 2023.---- prime Minister Narendra Modi
⬥ Which of the following dance form is wedded with Hindustani musie school?---- Kathak
⬥ The theme of the Twelfth five year plan of India was ----- Faster, Sustainable, and More Inclusive Growth
⬥ Which of the following musicians have won the Dada Saheb Phalke Award?---- Gulzar Which body in India is responsible for safeguarding and promoting the rights of consumers and ensuring consumer . ion? ⬥- > protection? > National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commissiom(NCDRC)
⬥ From which state, Pongal’ festival belongs?----. Tamil Nadu
⬥ In the periodic table, which group consists of elements known as the noble gases?---- Group 18 Identify the ancient site from the information given below: This is an old site with caves and rock shelters. People chose these natural caves because they provided shelter from the
⬥ rain, heat and wind. These rock shelters are close to the Narmada valley. --> Bhimbetka
⬥ Which team has won the Ranji Trophy maximum number of times?----. Mumbai (Bombay) In 2022, Indian-born entrepreneur has been elected as the first representative of the Indian community in
⬥ Germany > Gurdeep Singh Randhawa Which of the following statements is correct is regarding measures of money supply? I. M1 and M2 are known as narrow money.
⬥ TI. M3 and M4 are known as broad money. _-> Both I and II 61⬥ India shares longest land border with + _> Bangladesh
⬥ How many questions were asked in the 2011 Census of India?----. 29 Questions
⬥ In Volleyball, if the game is tied at in the fifth set, the set continues till one team builds a two-point lead over the other. --> 14-14 07/03/2024-> (11:30 AM - 12:30 PM)
⬥ How many sanskrit plays were written by Harshavardhana?----. Three
⬥ Which folk dance is related with state of Uttar Pradesh?---- Kajri
⬥ Who became the first Indian to win a bronze medal at the Asian Fencing Championships in China in June, 2023?---- Bhavani Devi As of October 2023, Savitri Jindal, the richest woman in India, has now become the wealthiest person in the
⬥ country. > seventh
⬥ The system of the mahalwari settlement was devised by + > Holt“Mackeénzie
⬥ are organized institutions that accept deposits from depositors and advance loans to borrowers.----. Banks
⬥ virtuoso, Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma, has revolutionized the role of the instrument in Hindustani music.---- santoor
⬥ In which year did Rangrajan Committee for estimating poverty line submit its report?---- 014
⬥ The literacy rate is defined by the percentage of the population of a given age group that can +> Read and Write Consider the following statements: A) Calcium is present in S-block of the periodic table. B) Metals comprise more than 78% of all known elements and appear on the left side of the Periodic Table.
⬥ C) d- Block elements are-also known as inner-transition electrons. > Both A and B is true The India-UAE Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) was signed on 18th February 2022 by the
⬥ Ministenof and the Minister of Economy of the UAE. > Commerce & Industry
⬥ In which sport would you perform a "smash" shot?---- Badminton
⬥ Which of the following sports is played by Anthony Amalraj?---- Table Tennis The Supreme Court has special advisory jurisdiction in matters which may specifically be referred to it by the President
⬥ of India under Article of the Constitution. --> 143
⬥ is associated with Badminton.---- saina Nehwal 62⬥ How many fundamental duties does a citizen have according to the article 51 A of the Indian constitution?----. 1) The Prime Minister of India has launched the PM PVTG Mission in November 2023. In this context, there are how
⬥ many PVTGs in 18 states & UTs? 75 This festival belongs to Sambalpur (Western Odisha),the new harvest crops are worshipped and people celebrate it by
⬥ eating the first rice of the harvest together with their family: > Nuakhai
⬥ Which of the following folk dance is associated with Goa?---- pekhni
⬥ National defence, roads, government administration are examples of which types of goods?---- Public goods 07/03/2024-> (2:30 PM - 3:30 PM)
⬥ In India, the Census Operations are conducted in two phases. What are these two phases?----. Houselisting and Housing Census, Population Enumeration According to the article 32 of the Indian Constitution, the Right to constitutional remedies is for the enforcement of
⬥ ——_—— > Fundamental Rights
⬥ Prakash Padukone was a famous player of:---- Badminton Sadhna S Nair is the second woman officer from the branch of the Indian Air Force (IAF) to attain the
⬥ esteemed rank of Air Marshal. --> medical
⬥ The official theme of the 36th edition of the National Games 2022 of India was +.» Celebrating unity through sports
⬥ Where is the headquarter of Indian Bureau of Mines?---- Nagpur
⬥ Karthikeyan Murali is associated with which of the following sports?----. chess
⬥ On September 24, 2023, Prime Minister of India has flagged off Vande Bharat trains via video conferencing.---- nine
⬥ How many elements are present in the first period of the periodic table?---- yo
⬥ Instrumentalist Shiv Kumar Sharma is related to: --> Santoor
⬥ Which team was the runners up in the ISL 2022/23?---- Bengaluru FC
⬥ The policy of Permanent Settlement was introduced inIndiain___-----, 1793 As per the situation during the 2011 Census of India, which of the following neighbouring countries is NOT included in
⬥ the top 10 world’s most populous countries? --> Sri Lanka
⬥ is the difference between the government’s total expenditure and its total receipts excluding borrowing.----, Fiscal deficit 63⬥ of the Indian Constitution mentions about office of Speaker of the House of the People.----. article 93
⬥ The Five Year Plans were formulated, implemented and regulated by a body known as the Commission.---- Planning The major festival of 's tribes is kharchi Puja, Garia Puja, Ker Puja, Bizu Festival, Tirtha Mukh Festival,
⬥ Ashokastami, Ganga Puja, Lampra Puja, Wah festival. > Tripura
⬥ Which Kathak dancer was awarded with ‘Padma Vibhushan’ in the year 1986?----, Pandit Birju Maharaj
⬥ Who was the founder of the Satavahana dynasty in India?---- simuka
⬥ The is a tribal dance from the Bhil community of Rajasthan.---- Ghoomar 07/03/2024-> (5:00 PM - 6:00 PM) Who was appointed as the Chairman of Senior Men’s Selection Committee by the Board of Control for Cricket in India
⬥ (BCCI) in July 2023? > Ajit Agarkar
⬥ To which of the following states of India does the dance form Mahasu belong?---- Himachal Pradesh
⬥ In which year was the Lucknow Pact signed between Congress and,Muslim League?----. 1916
⬥ Which of the following festivals is mainly associated with Assam?----. ping
⬥ Who of the following popularize folk dances;Rai’?----. Ram Sahay Pandey In May 2023, Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and senior advocate KV Viswanathan were be sworn in as
⬥ judges. _ > Supreme Court
⬥ The Santosh Trophy is named after Sir . a legendary figure in Indian football. _ -> Manmatha Nath Roy Chowdhury
⬥ is a legendary sitar player and one of India's most esteemed classical musicians.----. pandit Ravi Shankar The Government of India aims to offer affordable housing to urban residents by 2022 through program,
⬥ which was first introduced on June 25, 2015. > Pradhan Mantfi Awas Yojana (PMAY)
⬥ In India, APEDA stands for:----, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority Which of the following statements given below are correct? Statement 1: Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP) is not enforceable by law. 0.11) Statement 2: Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP) is non-justiciable. .11) --> Statement | and Statement 2 both are correct.
⬥ Which of the following personalities is associated with the Sarvodaya Plan of 1950?----, Jayaprakash Narayan 64Which state's government introduced the Gyan Sahayak Scheme in July, aiming at addressing teacher vacancies in
⬥ government schools through contractual appointments? > Gujarat
⬥ The concept of microfinance is primarily aimed at providing financial services to:----, Low-income individuals and small businesses
⬥ Which of the following is the tenure of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India?---- 6 years
⬥ Which age group is typically considered as the working-age population in India?---- 15-59 years On July 27, 2023, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released installment of PM-KISAN of about Rs. 17,000 Q.17} crores to more than 8.5 crore beneficiaries. --> 14th The Gupta Empire is often referred to as the "Golden Age of India." Which field of knowledge saw significant
⬥ advancements during this period? > Science, art, literature
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson P. R. Sreejesh?----. Hockey
⬥ Which sport is associated with “Allan Border Medal”?---- cricket . 65 30/03/2024-> (9:00 AM - 10:00 AM)
⬥ To which of the following states does the dance form Laho belong?---- Meghalaya
⬥ The literacy rates exclude Assam where the Census could not be conducted.---- jog)
⬥ Who is the first Indian singer to have perform at the Royal Albert Hall in London?----. Lata Mangeshkar Which of the following events was played in National Games 2023? I. Rowing
⬥---> IL Rollball --> Both I and II When a person leaves one job (either voluntarily or involuntarily) without finding another one, they are known to be
⬥ going through . > Frictional unemployment Who became the first Indian to receive the Grand Order of the Chain of Yellow Star in the republic of Suriname in June,
⬥ 2023? - -> Droupadi Murnu Demonetisation was a new initiative taken by the Government of India in to tackle the problem of corruption,
⬥ black money, terrorism and circulation of fake currency in the economy. > November 2016 Which state's government has granted approval for the ‘Location Accessible Multi-modal Initiative (LAccMI)’ scheme, aimed at establishing a sustainable, affordable, and safe transportation network for passengers and goods across the
⬥ state? -- > Odisha Read the following about the Green Revolution in India. A. The green revolution in India refers to a period when Indian Agriculture was converted into an industrial system due to the adoption of modern methods and technology such as the use of HYV seeds, tractors, irrigation facilities, pesticides and fertilizers. B. It was funded by the US and the Indian Government and the Ford and Rockefeller Foundation.
⬥ Identify the CORRECT statement/statements. _ > Both AandB
⬥ Which one is not the festival of Gujarat?---- sunburn Festival
⬥ Gopika Varma receives the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award 2018 for her contribution to _-> Mohiniyattam The Modern Periodic Table has 18 vertical columns known as ‘groups’ and horizontal rows known as
⬥ ‘periods’. _->7 66  
⬥ Which of the following is NOT associated with musical instrument Sarangi?----, Nikhil Banerjee
⬥ Which sport is played by the Indian sportsperson Jwala Gutta?---- Badminton
⬥ Major Dhyan Chand is a famous name in the game of - _-» Hockey
⬥ The Green Revolution in India primarily focused on improving the production of ----- wheat and rice
⬥ Which of the following articles of Indian Constitution is related to the Election Commission of India?----. article 324
⬥ Which of the following festival is celebrated on 25th December all over the world?---- Christmas In September 2023, Vijayawada Railway Station was awarded the -certification with the highest rating of
⬥ Platinum by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). > Green Railway Station
⬥ The famous work "Arthashastra" attributed to which ancient Indian scholar and strategist? _).. Chanakya