⬥ Martha aced out Rebecca to win the
first-place trophy.
act something out† 1. to perform in real life a role that one
has imagined in a fantasy. ⬥ I acted out an old fantasy
onstage. 2. to convert one’s bad feelings into action
rather than words. ⬥ Don’t act your aggressions out on
me! ⬥ She acted out her aggression. 3. to demonstrate
or communicate something through gestures or action
rather than words. ⬥ Act your request out, if you can’t
say it.
add (something) on(to) something and add (something) on†
to extend something by providing more (of something). (This use of on with add is colloquial.) ⬥ You
added nearly one thousand dollars onto the total.
add (something) to something to increase the intensity or
amount of something by giving more (of something)
to it. ⬥ You added too much sugar to my coffee.
add something up† to sum or total a set of figures. ⬥ Please
add these figures up again.
air something out† to freshen something up by placing it
in the open air; to freshen a room by letting outside air
move through it. ⬥ I’ll have to air out the car. Someone
has been smoking in it.
1
A
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
allow someone or something into a place and allow someone
or something in† to permit someone or something to enter
some place. ⬥ Will they allow you in the restaurant without a tie? ⬥ They won’t allow in too many visitors.
apologize (to someone) (for someone) to make an apology to someone for someone else’s actions. ⬥ Would
you please apologize to Wally for Tom? ⬥ I apologized for
Frank to the hostess. ⬥ I had to apologize for Frank. ⬥
I had to apologize to the hostess. ⬥ He was never able to
apologize to himself for his past errors.
apportion something out† (among some people) to divide
something and distribute it among people. ⬥ He apportioned the cake out among the guests. ⬥ He apportioned
out the applications among all those in the waiting room.
argue someone down† to defeat someone in a debate. ⬥
Sally could always argue him down if she had to.
argue something down† 1. Lit. to reduce something, such
as a bill or a price, by arguing. ⬥ I tried to argue the
price down, but it did no good. ⬥ Tom could not argue
down the bill. 2. Fig. to urge the defeat of a proposal
or a motion in a meeting through discussion. ⬥ I am
prepared to argue the proposal down in court.
argue something out† to settle something by discussing all
the important points. ⬥ We are going to have to argue
this out some other time. ⬥ Must we argue out every single detail of this contract?
arrange for someone to do something to make plans for
someone to do something. ⬥ I will arrange for Charles
to fix what he broke. ⬥ I arranged for the plumber to
install a new water heater.
ask someone out† (for something) Go to next.
allow someone or something into a place
2
ask someone out (to something) 1. and ask someone out†
(for something) to invite someone to go out (to something or some place) [on a date]. ⬥ He asked her out to
dinner, but she had other plans. ⬥ She couldn’t go, so he
asked out someone else. 2. to invite someone for a visit
to a place in the country or some other location remote
from the center of things. ⬥ Tom must be tired of the
city. Let’s ask him out to our place.
ask someone over to invite someone who lives close by to
come to one’s home [for a visit]. (Either to a house or
apartment.) ⬥ Can we ask Tom over? ⬥ He has been
asked over a number of times.
atone for something to make amends for an error. ⬥ You
must atone for the bad things you have done.
auction something off† to sell something [to the highest
bidder] at an auction. ⬥ He auctioned his home off. ⬥
He auctioned off his home.
average something up† to calculate the average of a set of
figures. ⬥ Please add these figures and average them up.
⬥ Please average up all the monthly expenses for the previous year.
average something up
3
back someone or something out† (from something) to back
someone or something out of something. ⬥ Judy backed out the
car from the parking place. ⬥ She backed it out from its
space.
back someone or something out of something and back someone or something out† to guide or move someone or
something backward out of something or some place.
⬥ Judy backed the car out of the garage. ⬥ Please back
out the car.
back someone or something up to someone or something and
back someone or something up† to guide or move someone or something backward to someone or something.
⬥ She backed the car up to the end of the street. ⬥ Using
hand signals, Todd helped back Mary up to the gas pump.
back someone up† to provide someone with help in
reserve; to support someone. ⬥ Don’t worry. I will back
you up when you need me. ⬥ Will you please back up
Nancy over the weekend?
back something up† 1. Lit. to drive a car backward. ⬥ Will
you back your car up a little? ⬥ I will back up the car. 2.
Lit. to cause objects to obstruct a pathway or channel
and cause a slowdown in the flow. ⬥ The wreck backed
the cars up for a long way. ⬥ Some dead branches and
leaves backed the sewer up. 3. Fig. to give additional
4
B
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
support or evidence about something. (To support or
strengthen the facts.) ⬥ That backs up my story, all right.
bail someone or something out† Fig. to rescue someone or
something from trouble or difficulty. (Based on bail
someone out of jail.) ⬥ The proposed law was in trouble,
but Senator Todd bailed out the bill at the last minute.
bail someone out of jail and bail someone out† 1. Lit. to
deposit a sum of money that allows someone to get out
of jail while waiting for a trial. ⬥ John was in jail. I had
to go down to the police station to bail him out. ⬥ I need
some cash to bail out a friend! 2. Fig. to help someone
who is having difficulties. ⬥ When my brother went
broke, I had to bail him out with a loan.
bail something out† 1. to remove water from the bottom
of a boat by dipping or scooping. ⬥ Tom has to bail the
boat out before we get in. ⬥ You should always bail out
a boat before using it. 2. to empty a boat of accumulated water. ⬥ Would you bail this boat out? ⬥ I will
bail out the boat.
ball someone or something up† to interfere with someone or
something; to mess someone or something up. ⬥ Who
balled this television up?
ball something up† to roll something up into a ball. (Alluding to something, such as rope, being tangled up and
so useless.) ⬥ She balled the clay up and stuck it to the
clown’s face as a nose.
bandage someone or something up† to wrap bandages on
someone or on someone’s wounds. ⬥ We should bandage the wounds up first. ⬥ We should bandage up the
wounds first. ⬥ I have to bandage him up before we can
move him.
bandage someone or something up
5
bandy something about† to spread something, such as
someone’s good name, around in an unfavorable context; to toss words around in a gossipy fashion. (Bandy
means to toss or hit something back and forth.) ⬥ Just
stop bandying words about and start telling the truth!
bang someone or something around† to knock someone or
something about; to beat or strike someone or something. ⬥ Let’s bang him around a little and see if that
will change his mind. ⬥ Why are you banging around my
friend? ⬥ Don’t bang those pans around.
bang someone up† to beat someone up; to assault someone; to damage someone. ⬥ The crooks banged him up
a little bit. ⬥ The crash banged up the passengers in the
car.
bang something in† to crush something; to dent or collapse something. ⬥ Who banged the side of the washing
machine in?
bang something out† to play something on the piano,
loudly, banging on the keys; to type something on a
keyboard by pounding on the keys. ⬥ Let me bang this
melody out and see if you can guess who wrote it. ⬥
Please bang out the school song good and loud.
bang something up† to crash or wreck something; to damage something. ⬥ Don’t bang my best skillet up!
bank something up† (against something) 1. to heap or
mound up something so that it presses against something. ⬥ Walter banked the coals up against the side of
the furnace. ⬥ He banked up the coals against the side.
2. to heap or mound up something to guard against
something. ⬥ They had to build barriers to hide behind.
They banked dirt and rubble up against the oncoming
attackers.
bandy something about
6
bark something out at someone and bark something at someone; bark something to someone; bark something out† (to
someone) Fig. to say something harshly to someone. ⬥
The sergeant barked the orders out at the recruits. ⬥ He
barked an order at his staff. ⬥ The teacher barked a reprimand out to the class.
barter something away† to trade something away; to lose
something of value in a trade. ⬥ Don’t barter my car
away! ⬥ Don’t barter away anything of such high value.
barter something off† to get rid of something by trading
it for something else. ⬥ See if you can barter that old
desk off.
bash someone or something around† to treat someone or
something roughly (physically or figuratively); to beat
on or abuse someone or something (physically or otherwise). ⬥ Stop bashing me around, and let’s talk.
bash something in† to crush something inward or to the
inside. ⬥ Don’t bash the door in!
bash something in
7
bark something out at someone
bash something up† to crash something; to strike something and damage it. ⬥ She bashed the car up badly.
bat something around† 1. Lit. to knock something around
with a bat or something similar. ⬥ Let’s bat around
some balls before we go home. 2. Fig. to discuss something back and forth. ⬥ Let’s bat this around a little bit
tomorrow at our meeting.
batter someone or something up† to damage or harm someone or something. ⬥ Max threatened to batter Lefty up
within an inch of his life. ⬥ Who battered up this desk?
batter something down† to smash or break down something, such as a wall, door, or any defensive structure.
⬥ Do they have to batter anything down as part of the
construction project?
battle something out† 1. Lit. to fight about something to
a conclusion. ⬥ They battled the matter out and came
to an agreement. ⬥ The two young toughs went into the
alley to battle out their differences. 2. Fig. to argue something to a conclusion; to struggle to reach a conclusion.
⬥ The Senate and the House disagree on the bill, so they
will have to battle a compromise out.
bawl someone out† to scold someone in a loud voice. ⬥
The teacher bawled the student out for arriving late.
bear someone up† to sustain or encourage someone. ⬥
Your encouragement bore me up through a very hard
time. ⬥ I will bear up the widow through the funeral service as well as I can.
bear someone or something up† to hold someone or something up; to support someone or something. ⬥ Will this
bench bear me up? ⬥ This bench is so sturdy it would
bear up an elephant.
bash something up
8
bear something out† [for facts or evidence] to support or
confirm a story or explanation. ⬥ The facts don’t bear
this out. ⬥ Her story bears out exactly what you said.
beat one’s brains out† (to do something) to try very hard
to do something. ⬥ If you think I’m going to beat my
brains out to do this, you are crazy. ⬥ I beat out my brains
to do this for you!
beat oneself up Fig. to be overly critical of one’s behavior
or actions; to punish oneself with guilt and remorse
over past actions. (Not a physical beating. Fixed order.)
⬥ It’s over and done with. There’s no need to beat yourself up.
beat someone down† Fig. to defeat or demoralize someone. ⬥ The constant bombing finally beat them down.
⬥ The attackers beat down the defenders.
beat someone or something back† to drive someone or something back to where it came from. ⬥ We beat them back
to where they were before the war started. ⬥ The army
beat back the defenders and saved the town.
beat someone or something off† to drive someone or something away by beating. ⬥ They beat the enemy off. ⬥ The
army beat off the savage attack, saving the town. ⬥ I was
able to beat off the intruder.
beat someone or something out† to beat someone or something; to win over someone or something. ⬥ The other
team beat us out readily. ⬥ They beat out every other
team in the league, too.
beat someone out† to outdistance someone; to perform
better than someone. ⬥ We have to beat the other company out, and then we’ll have the contract. ⬥ I beat out
Walter in the foot race.
beat someone out
9
beat someone up† to harm or subdue a person by striking him. ⬥ The robber beat me up and took my money.
beat something down† 1. to break something in; to break
through something. ⬥ Don’t beat the door down! I’m
coming! ⬥ Please don’t beat down the door! 2. to flatten something. ⬥ Sam beat the veal down to the thickness of a half an inch.
beat something into someone and beat something in† Fig.
to use physical abuse to get someone to learn something; to work very hard to get someone to learn something. (Beating something into someone or someone’s
head.) ⬥ Do I have to beat this into your head? Why
can’t you learn? ⬥ Why do I have to beat in this information?
beat something up† 1. to whip up something, such as an
egg. ⬥ Beat the egg up and pour it in the skillet. 2. to
ruin something; to damage something. ⬥ The banging
of the door has really beat this wall up.
bed (someone or something) down† (some place) to put someone or something into a bed or on bedding some place.
⬥ We bedded the kids down on mattresses on the floor.
beef something up† to add strength or substance to something. ⬥ Let’s beef this music up with a little more on the
drums. ⬥ They beefed up the offer with another thousand dollars.
beg something off† to decline an invitation politely. ⬥ She
begged the trip to the zoo off. ⬥ We all begged off the dinner invitation.
belch something up† to cause the release of something that
goes upward. ⬥ The fire belched flames and smoke up.
⬥ The volcano belched up clouds of poison gases.
beat someone up
10
bellow something out† to cry something out loudly with
great force. ⬥ Don’t just say it. Bellow it out! ⬥ Bellow
out your name so we know who you are!
belt a drink down† Fig. to drink an alcoholic drink rapidly. ⬥ She belted a couple of drinks down and went out
to face her guests.
belt someone or something down† to secure someone or
something with a belt or strap. ⬥ Please belt the child’s
seat down and put the child in it. ⬥ Did you belt down
the kids?
belt someone up† to secure someone with a belt, such as
a seat belt in a car. ⬥ I had to belt her up because the
seat belt was so complicated.
belt something out† Fig. to sing or play a song loudly and
with spirit. ⬥ She really knows how to belt out a song.
bend someone or something back† to curve or arch someone or something backward. ⬥ We bent the child back
a little so we could examine the spider bite. ⬥ Ouch!
Don’t bend back my hand!
bid something down† to lower the value of something,
such as stock, by offering a lower price for it each time
it comes up for sale. ⬥ We bid the price down and then
bought all of it. ⬥ I could see that the traders were bidding down the price, but I didn’t want to take the risk.
bid something up† to raise the price of something at an
auction by offering higher and higher prices; to increase
the value of something, such as shares of stock, by
offering a higher price for it each time it comes up for
sale. ⬥ Someone bid up the price on each piece at auction and then backed off.
bid something up
11
bind someone or something down† to tie or secure someone
or something to something. ⬥ Bind the tarpaulin so it
won’t get away. ⬥ We will bind down the patient tightly.
bind someone or something together† to tie the parts of
something together; to tie a number of things or people together. ⬥ Can you bind together all three parts? ⬥
Bind these two bandits together and lead them to jail.
bind someone or something up† (in something) and bind
someone or something up† (with something) to tie someone
or something up in something. ⬥ They bound the books
up in leather straps. ⬥ I will bind up the larger sticks in
strong cord.
bind someone or something up† (with something) Go to
previous.
bind someone over† (to someone or something) to deliver
someone to some legal authority. (A legal usage.) ⬥
They bound the suspect over to the sheriff. ⬥ The sheriff will bind over the suspect to the county jail.
bitch someone off† Sl. to make someone angry. (Use discretion with bitch, a word many consider coarse or vulgar.) ⬥ You really bitch me off, do you know that? ⬥
That foul temper of yours could bitch off anybody.
bitch someone or something up† Inf. to mess someone or
something up. (Use discretion with bitch, a word many
consider coarse or vulgar.) ⬥ Who bitched these cards
up? ⬥ I never bitch up anything!
bite someone’s head off Fig. to speak sharply and with
great anger to someone. (Fixed order.) ⬥ Don’t bite my
head off! Be patient.
bite something off† to remove something in a bite. ⬥ Ann
bit a piece off and chewed it up. ⬥ She bit off a piece.
bind someone or something down
12
blab something around† Inf. to gossip something to others; to spread some news or secret. ⬥ It’s true, but don’t
blab it around.
blank something out† 1. Lit. to erase something, as on a
computer screen. ⬥ Who blanked out the information
that was on my screen? 2. Fig. to forget something, perhaps on purpose; to blot something out of memory. ⬥
I’m sorry, I just blanked your question out.
blaze up 1. Lit. [for flames] to expand upward suddenly.
⬥ The fire blazed up and warmed all of us. 2. Fig. [for
trouble, especially violent trouble] to erupt suddenly. ⬥
The battle blazed up again, and the fighting started to
become fierce.
bleach something out† to remove the color or stain from
something. ⬥ Wally bleached his jeans out so they looked
more stylish.
bleep something out† to replace a word or phrase in a
radio or television broadcast with some sort of covering tone. (This is sometimes done to prevent a taboo
word or other information from being broadcast.) ⬥
He tried to say the word on television, but they bleeped
it out. ⬥ They tried to bleep out the whole sentence.
block someone up† to constipate someone. ⬥ That food
always blocks me up. ⬥ He blocked himself up by eating
something he shouldn’t.
block something off† to prevent movement through something by putting up a barrier; to close a passageway. ⬥
Sam blocked the corridor off with a row of chairs.
block something out† 1. to obscure a clear view of something. ⬥ The bushes blocked out my view of the car that
was approaching. 2. to lay something out carefully; to
block something out
13
map out the details of something. ⬥ She blocked it out
for us, so we could understand.
blot someone or something out† Fig. to forget someone or
something by covering up memories or by trying to
forget. ⬥ I try to blot those bad thoughts out.
blot something out† to make something invisible by covering it. (See also blot someone or something out.) ⬥ Don’t
blot the name out on the application form.
blow off 1. Lit. [for something] to be carried off something by moving air. ⬥ The leaves of the trees blew off
in the strong wind. 2. Lit. [for a valve or pressuremaintaining device] to be forced off or away by high
pressure. (See the examples.) ⬥ The safety valve blew off
and all the pressure escaped. 3. Fig. [for someone] to
become angry; to lose one’s temper. ⬥ I just needed to
blow off. Sorry for the outburst. ⬥ I blew off at her. 4. Sl.
to goof off; to waste time; to procrastinate. ⬥ You blow
off too much. ⬥ All your best time is gone—blown off.
5. Sl. a time-waster. (Usually blow-off.) ⬥ Get busy. I
don’t pay blow-offs around here. 6. Sl. something that
can be done easily or without much effort. (Usually
blow-off.) ⬥ Oh, that is just a blow-off. Nothing to it.
7. and blow someone or something off† Sl. to ignore
someone or something; to skip an appointment with
someone; to not attend something where one is
expected. ⬥ He decided to sleep in and blow this class
off. 8. and blow someone off† Sl. to ignore someone in
order to end a romantic or other relationship. ⬥ She
knew that he had blown her off when he didn’t even call
her for a month.
blow someone or something away† [for the wind] to carry
someone or something away. ⬥ The wind almost blew
her away.
blot someone or something out
14
blow someone or something down† [for a rush of air] to
knock someone or something over. ⬥ The wind blew
Chuck down.
blow someone or something up† 1. Lit. to destroy someone
or something by explosion. ⬥ The terrorists blew the
building up at midday. 2. Fig. to exaggerate something
[good or bad] about someone or something. ⬥ The
media always blows up reports of celebrity behavior.
blow someone over† 1. Lit. [for the wind or an explosion]
to knock someone over. ⬥ The force of the wind nearly
blew me over. 2. Fig. to surprise or astound someone.
(Fixed order.) ⬥ Her announcement just blew me over.
blow someone’s brains out† Sl. to kill someone with a
gun. ⬥ Careful with that gun, or you’ll blow your brains
out.
blow something out† to extinguish a flame with a puff of
breath. ⬥ I blew out the candles one by one.
blow something up† 1. to inflate something. ⬥ He didn’t
have enough breath to blow the balloon up. 2. to have a
photograph enlarged. ⬥ How big can you blow this picture up?
blurt something out† (at someone) to say something to
someone without thinking. (Usually to say something
that should not be said.) ⬥ It was a secret. Why did you
blurt it out?
board someone or an animal out† to send someone or an
animal away to live, temporarily. (Usually said of a
school-age child or a pet.) ⬥ They decided to board Billy
out. ⬥ They boarded out the dog while they were on
vacation.
board someone or an animal out
15
board something up† to enclose or seal a building or part
of a building with boards or panels. ⬥ We will have to
board this house up if we can’t sell it.
bog down to become encumbered and slow. (As if one
were walking through a bog and getting stuck in the
mud. Often preceded by a form of get.) ⬥ The process
bogged down and almost stopped.
boil over [for a liquid] to overflow while being boiled.
⬥ The sauce boiled over and dripped onto the stove. ⬥
Don’t let the stew boil over!
boil something away† 1. Lit. to boil a liquid until it is gone
altogether. ⬥ She left the kettle on and boiled the water
away. 2. Lit. to remove a volatile chemical from a solution by boiling. ⬥ Boil the alcohol away or the sauce will
be ruined.
boil something down† 1. Lit. to condense or thicken something, such as a liquid. ⬥ I have to boil this gravy down
for a while before I can serve it. 2. Fig. to reduce a problem to its simple essentials. ⬥ If we could boil this problem down to its essentials, we might be able to solve it.
boil something up† Rur. to cook a batch of food by boiling. ⬥ She boiled some beans up for dinner.
bollix something up† Inf. to ruin something; to mess something up. ⬥ Please don’t bollix my stereo up. ⬥ Who bollixed up the folded laundry?
bolster something up† to give added support to something.
⬥ The carpenter bolstered the shelf up with a nail or two.
⬥ I had to bolster up the door or it would have fallen in.
bolt something down† 1. Lit. to fasten something down
securely with bolts. ⬥ Did anyone bolt the washing
machine down? 2. Fig. to eat something too rapidly. ⬥
Don’t bolt your food down.
board something up
16
bomb someone out† to cause people to flee by bombing
their homes and towns. ⬥ The planes bombed the villagers out. ⬥ The attack bombed out everyone for miles
around.
bomb something out† to destroy a place by bombing. ⬥
I hope they don’t bomb the village out.
book something up† to reserve all the available places. ⬥
The travel agency booked all the good seats up.
boom out [for a loud sound] to sound out like thunder.
⬥ His voice boomed out such that everyone could hear.
boom something out† [for someone] to say something very
loud; to shout. ⬥ The announcer boomed out the names
of the players.
boost someone up† to give someone a helpful lift up to
something. ⬥ She boosted me up so I could get into the
window.
boot someone or an animal out† and kick someone or an animal out† 1. Lit. to send or remove someone or an animal from a place forcefully, often by kicking. ⬥ I kicked
the cat out and then went to bed. 2. Fig. to force someone or something to leave some place. ⬥ We booted out
the people who didn’t belong there.
boot something up† to start up a computer. ⬥ She booted
her computer up and started writing.
boot up [of a computer] to begin operating; to start up
one’s computer. ⬥ He turned on the computer and it
booted up.
boss someone around† to give orders to someone; to keep
telling someone what to do. ⬥ Stop bossing me around.
I’m not your employee.
boss someone around
17
botch something up† to mess something up; to do a bad
job of something. ⬥ You really botched this up.
bottle something up† 1. Lit. to put some sort of liquid into
bottles. ⬥ She bottled her homemade chili sauce up and
put the bottles in a box. ⬥ She bottled up a lot of the
stuff. 2. Fig. to constrict something as if it were put in
a bottle. ⬥ The patrol boats bottled the other boats up at
the locks on the river. 3. and bottle something up†
(inside (someone)) Fig. to hold one’s feelings within; to
keep from saying something that one feels strongly
about. ⬥ Let’s talk about it, John. You shouldn’t bottle it
up.
bottom out Fig. to reach the lowest or worst point of
something. ⬥ All my problems seem to be bottoming out.
They can’t get much worse.
bounce something around† (with someone) to discuss
something with a number of people; to move an idea
botch something up
18
bottle something up (sense 3)
from person to person like a ball. ⬥ I need to bounce
this around with my family.
bounce something off (of) someone or something 1. Lit. to
make something rebound off someone or something.
(Of is usually retained before pronouns.) ⬥ She bounced
the ball off the wall, turned, and tossed it to Wally.
2. and bounce something off† Fig. to try an idea or
concept out on someone or a group. (Of is usually
retained before pronouns.) ⬥ Let me bounce off this
idea, if I may. ⬥ Can I bounce something off of you people, while you’re here?
bowl someone over 1. Lit. to knock someone over. (Fixed
order.) ⬥ We were bowled over by the wind. 2. Fig. to
surprise or overwhelm someone. (Fixed order.) ⬥ The
news bowled me over.
box someone in† Fig. to put someone into a bind; to reduce
the number of someone’s alternatives. (See also the following entry.) ⬥ I don’t want to box you in, but you are
running out of options.
box someone or something in† to trap or confine someone
or something. ⬥ He boxed her in so she could not get
away from him. ⬥ They tried to box in the animals, but
they needed more space.
box someone up† to confine someone in a small area. ⬥
Please don’t box me up in that little office. ⬥ The boss
boxed up Fred in a tiny office.
box something up† to place something in a box. ⬥ Please
box the books up and put them into the trunk of the car.
brace someone or something up† to prop up or add support
to someone or something. ⬥ They braced the tree up for
the expected windstorm. ⬥ They braced up the tree again
after the storm.
brace someone or something up
19
brave something out† to endure something; to put up with
something courageously. ⬥ I don’t know if all the men
can brave the attack out.
break down 1. Lit. [for something] to fall apart; [for
something] to stop operating. ⬥ The air-conditioning
broke down, and we got very warm. ⬥ The car broke
down on the long trip. 2. Fig. [for one] to lose control
of one’s emotions; [for one] to have an emotional or
psychological crisis. ⬥ He couldn’t keep going. He finally
broke down.
break even for income to equal expenses. (This implies
that money was not made or lost.) ⬥ Unfortunately, my
business just managed to break even last year.
break out 1. to burst forth suddenly, as with a fire, a riot,
giggling, shouting, etc. ⬥ A fire broke out in the belfry.
⬥ A round of giggling broke out when the teacher tripped.
2. Sl. to leave. ⬥ It’s late, man. Time to break out. ⬥ We
broke out a little after midnight.
break someone down† to force someone to give up and
tell secrets or agree to do something. ⬥ After threats of
torture, they broke the spy down.
break someone in† to train someone to do a new job;
to supervise someone who is learning to do a new
job. ⬥ Who will break the new employee in?
break someone up† to cause a person to laugh, perhaps at
an inappropriate time. ⬥ John told a joke that really
broke Mary up. ⬥ The comedian’s job was to break up
the audience by telling jokes.
break something away† (from something) to break a part
or piece of something away from the whole. ⬥ She
broke a bit away and popped it into her mouth.
brave something out
20
break something down† 1. Lit. to tear something down;
to destroy something. ⬥ They used an ax to break the
door down. 2. Fig. to destroy a social or legal barrier.
⬥ The court broke a number of legal barriers down this
week.
break something down† (for someone) Fig. to explain
something to someone in simple terms or in an orderly
fashion. (Alludes to breaking a complex problem into
smaller segments which can be explained more easily.
⬥ She doesn’t understand. You will have to break it down
for her.
break something down† (into something) 1. to reduce a
compound or its structure to its components. ⬥ Heat
will break this down into sodium and a few gases. ⬥ Will
heat break down this substance into anything useful?
2. to reduce a large numerical total to its subparts and
explain each one. ⬥ She broke the total down into its
components. ⬥ Please break down the total into its parts
again. 3. to discuss the details of something by examining its subparts. ⬥ Let’s break this problem down into
its parts and deal with each one separately. ⬥ Breaking
down complex problems into their components is almost
fun.
break something in† 1. Lit. to crush or batter something
to pieces. ⬥ Why are you breaking the door in? Here’s
the key! 2. Fig. to use a new device until it runs well and
smoothly; to wear shoes, perhaps a little at a time, until
they feel comfortable. ⬥ I can’t drive at high speed until
I break this car in. ⬥ I want to go out this weekend and
break in the car.
break something up† 1. Lit. to destroy something. ⬥ The
storm broke the docks up on the lake. ⬥ The police broke
up the gambling ring. 2. Fig. to put an end to something. ⬥ The police broke the fight up.
break something up
21
break something up† (into something) to break something
into smaller pieces. ⬥ We broke the crackers up into
much smaller pieces.
break something off† to end a relationship abruptly. ⬥ I
knew she was getting ready to break it off, but Tom didn’t.
⬥ After a few long and bitter arguments, they broke off
their relationship.
break up 1. Lit. [for something] to fall apart; to be broken to pieces. (Typically said of a ship breaking up on
rocks.) ⬥ In the greatest storm of the century, the ship
broke up on the reef. ⬥ It broke up and sank. 2. [for
married persons] to divorce. ⬥ After many years of
bickering, they finally broke up. 3. [for a marriage] to
dissolve in divorce. ⬥ Their marriage finally broke up.
4. to begin laughing very hard. ⬥ The comedian told a
particularly good joke, and the audience broke up. ⬥ I
always break up when I hear her sing. She is so bad!
bring an amount of money in† to earn an amount of money;
to draw or attract an amount of money. ⬥ My parttime job brings fifty dollars in every week.
bring someone around† 1. Lit. to bring someone for a
visit; to bring someone for someone (else) to meet. ⬥
Please bring your wife around sometime. 2. and bring
someone around (to consciousness) Fig. to bring
someone to consciousness. ⬥ The doctor brought
around the unconscious man with smelling salts. ⬥ The
boxer was knocked out, but his manager brought him
around. 3. and bring someone around (to one’s way
of thinking); bring someone around (to one’s position) Fig. to persuade someone (to accept something);
to manage to get someone to agree (to something). ⬥
The last debate brought around a lot of voters to our candidate.
break something up (into something)
22
bring someone down† 1. Lit. to assist or accompany someone from a higher place to a lower place. ⬥ Please bring
your friends down so I can meet them. ⬥ She brought
down her cousin, who had been taking a nap upstairs.
2. Fig. to bring someone to a place for a visit. ⬥ Let’s
bring Tom and Terri down for a visit this weekend. ⬥ We
brought down Tom just last month. 3. Fig. to restore
someone to a normal mood or attitude. (After a period
of elation or, perhaps, drug use.) ⬥ The bad news
brought me down quickly.
bring someone in† (on something) to include someone in
some deed or activity. ⬥ I’m going to have to bring a specialist in on this. ⬥ Please bring in several specialists to
advise on this case.
bring someone or something along† (to something) to bring
someone or something with one to some event. ⬥
I brought my uncle along to the party.
bring someone or something back† to make someone or
something return. ⬥ Would you please bring the child
back?
bring someone or something forth† to present or produce
someone or something. ⬥ Bring the roast turkey forth!
bring someone or something out of something and bring
someone or something out† to cause someone or something to emerge from something or some place. ⬥ The
explosion brought the people out of their homes.
bring someone or something up† 1. Lit. to cause someone or
something to go up with one from a lower place to a
higher place. ⬥ We brought them up and let them view
the city from the balcony. 2. Fig. to mention someone
or something. ⬥ Why did you have to bring that up? ⬥
Why did you bring up Walter? I hate talking about him!
3. Fig. to raise someone or something; to care for somebring someone or something up
23
one or something up to adulthood. ⬥ We brought the
dog up from a pup.
bring someone over† from some place to bring someone
from a place, from nearby, or from a great distance. ⬥
They brought over the neighbors from across the street.
bring someone over† ((to) some place) to bring a person
for a visit to some place. ⬥ Why don’t you bring her
over to our place for a visit?
bring someone over† to something to bring someone for a
visit and a meal or other event. ⬥ Please bring your
friend over to dinner sometime.
bring someone up† for something 1. to suggest someone’s
name for something. ⬥ I would like to bring Beth up for
vice president. ⬥ I will bring up Beth for this office if you
don’t. 2. to put someone’s name up for promotion,
review, discipline, etc. ⬥ We brought Tom up for promotion.
bring someone up† on something to provide something
while raising a child to adulthood. ⬥ She brought her
children up on fast food. ⬥ You shouldn’t bring up your
children on that kind of entertainment!
bring something about† to make something happen. ⬥ Is
she clever enough to bring it about? ⬥ Oh, yes, she can
bring about anything she wants.
bring something away† (from something) 1. to come away
from some event with some important insight or information. ⬥ I brought some valuable advice away from the
lecture. 2. to move something away from something. (A
request to move something away from something and
toward the requester.) ⬥ Bring the pitcher of water away
from the fireplace.
bring someone over from some place
24
bring something back† (to someone) to remind someone of
something. ⬥ The funeral brought memories back. ⬥
The warm winds brought back the old feeling of loneliness that I had experienced so many times in the tropics.
bring something down† 1. Lit. to move something from a
higher place to a lower place. ⬥ And while you’re up
there, please bring down the box marked “winter clothing.” 2. to lower something, such as prices, profits,
taxes, etc. ⬥ The governor pledged to bring taxes down.
3. Fig. to defeat or overcome something, such as an
enemy, a government, etc.
bring something down† on one(’s head) 1. Lit. to cause
something to fall onto one’s head. ⬥ He jarred the
shelves and all the books were brought down on his head.
⬥ When he hit the wall of the hut, he brought down the
roof on himself. 2. Fig. to cause the collapse of something or some enterprise onto oneself. ⬥ Your bumbling
will bring everything down on your head!
bring something off† to cause something to happen; to
carry out a plan successfully. ⬥ Do you think you can
bring it off ?
bring something on† 1. to cause something to happen; to
cause a situation to occur. ⬥ What brought this event
on? ⬥ What brought on this catastrophe? 2. to cause a
case or an attack of a disease. ⬥ What brought on your
coughing fit?
bring something out† to issue something; to publish something; to present something [to the public]. ⬥ I am
bringing a new book out. ⬥ I hear you have brought out
a new edition of your book.
bring something out† (in someone) to cause a particular
quality to be displayed by a person, such as virtue,
bring something out (in someone)
25
courage, a mean streak, selfishness, etc. ⬥ You bring the
best out in me.
bring something out of someone and bring something out†
to cause something to be said by a person, such as a
story, the truth, an answer, etc. ⬥ We threatened her a
little and that brought the truth out of her.
bring something together† to assemble things; to gather
things together. ⬥ Thank you for bringing everything
together so we can begin work.
bring something up† 1. Lit. to vomit something up; to
cough something up. ⬥ See if you can get him to bring
the penny up. 2. Fig. to mention something. ⬥ Why did
you have to bring that problem up?
bring the house down† 1. Lit. to cause a house to collapse. ⬥ The most severe earthquake in years finally
brought the house down. 2. Fig. [for a performance or
a performer] to excite the audience into making a great
clamor of approval. ⬥ Karen’s act brought the house
down.
bring up the rear to move along behind everyone else;
to be at the end of the line. (Originally referred to
marching soldiers. Fixed order.) ⬥ Here comes John,
bringing up the rear.
broaden out to become wider; to expand. ⬥ The river
broadened out and became deeper.
broaden something out† to make something wider; to
expand something. ⬥ Now, broaden this part out a little, so it looks like a cloud, not a painted pillow. ⬥
Broaden out the river in your painting so it looks very
wide.
brush someone off† 1. Lit. to remove something, such as
dust or lint, from someone by brushing. ⬥ The bathbring something out of someone
26
room attendant brushed Mr. Harris off and was
rewarded with a small tip. 2. Fig. to reject someone; to
dismiss someone. (As if someone were mere lint.) ⬥
He brushed her off, telling her she had no appointment.
brush someone or something aside† 1. Lit. to push or shove
someone or something out of the way. ⬥ Don’t just
brush me aside. I almost fell over. 2. Fig. to cast someone or something away; to rid oneself of someone or
something; to ignore or dismiss someone or something.
⬥ You must not brush this matter aside.
brush something down† to clean and groom fur or fabric
by brushing. ⬥ Why don’t you brush your coat down?
It’s very linty.
bubble over 1. Lit. [for boiling or effervescent liquid]
to spill or splatter over the edge of its container. ⬥ The
pot bubbled over and put out the flame on the stove.
2. Fig. [for someone] to be so happy and merry that the
joy “spills over” onto other people. ⬥ She was just bubbling over, she was so happy.
buckle someone in† to attach someone securely with a
vehicle’s seat belts. (This includes airplane seat belts.)
⬥ Don’t forget to buckle the children in.
buckle under 1. Lit. [for something] to collapse. ⬥ With
heavy trucks on it, the bridge buckled under. 2. Fig. [for
someone] to collapse or give in under the burden of
heavy demands or great anxiety. ⬥ With so much to
worry about, she buckled under.
bud out [for a flowering plant or tree] to develop buds.
⬥ How early in the spring do the trees bud out around
here?
bud out
27
buddy up (to someone) to become overly familiar or
friendly with someone. ⬥ Don’t try to buddy up to me
now. It won’t do any good.
build someone into something and build someone in† to
make a person an integral part of an organization or a
plan. ⬥ The mayor built his cronies into the organizational structure of the town.
build someone or something up† 1. Lit. to make someone or
something bigger or stronger. ⬥ Tom is lifting weights
to build himself up for basketball. ⬥ Tom needs to build
up his upper body. 2. Fig. to advertise, praise, or promote someone or something. ⬥ Theatrical agents work
very hard to build up their clients.
build someone or something up† (from something) to transform someone or something from a lowly start to a
higher state. ⬥ I built up this business from nothing.
build someone or something up† (into someone or something)
to develop or advance someone or something into a
particular [desirable] kind of person or thing. ⬥ The
publicity people built her up into a singer whom everyone looked forward to hearing.
build someone up† (for something) Fig. to prepare someone for something; to bring a person into a state of
mind to accept some information. ⬥ We built them up
for the challenge they were to face.
build something into something and build something in†
1. to integrate a piece of furniture or an appliance into
a building’s construction. ⬥ We will build this cupboard
into the wall about here. ⬥ We are going to build in a
chest of drawers. 2. to make a particular quality a basic
part of something. ⬥ We build quality into our cars
before we put our name on them. 3. to make a special
buddy up (to someone)
28
restriction or specification a part of the plan of something. ⬥ I built the restriction into our agreement.
build something up† 1. Lit. to add buildings to an area of
land or a neighborhood. ⬥ They are really building this
area up. There is no more open space. 2. Fig. to develop,
accumulate, or increase something, such as wealth,
business, goodwill, etc. ⬥ I built this business up through
hard work and hope. 3. Fig. to praise or exalt something; to exaggerate the virtues of something. ⬥ The
master of ceremonies built the act up so much that everyone was disappointed when they saw it.
build up to increase; to develop. ⬥ The storm clouds are
building up. Better close the windows.
bump someone off† and knock someone off† Sl. to kill
someone. ⬥ They tried to bump her off, but she was too
clever and got away.
bump someone or something up† 1. Lit. to damage or batter someone or something. ⬥ The crash into the wall
bumped the race driver up a little. 2. Fig. to raise someone or something to a higher category or level. (As if
pushing someone into a higher category.) ⬥ I wanted
to fly first-class, but they wouldn’t bump me up.
bunch up to pack together or cluster. ⬥ Spread out. Don’t
bunch up!
bundle (oneself) up (against something) to wrap oneself
up in protective clothing or bedding as protection
against the cold. ⬥ Please bundle yourself up against the
frigid wind.
bundle someone off† (to some place) Fig. to send someone,
usually a child, somewhere. ⬥ Robert bundled the children off to school.
bundle someone off (to some place)
29
bundle someone up† (against something) to wrap someone up in protective clothing or bedding against the
cold. ⬥ Wally bundled Billy up against the winter storm.
bundle someone up† (in something) to wrap someone up
in protective clothing or bedding. ⬥ Bill bundled Billy
up in his parka.
bundle something off† (to someone or some place) to send
something off in a bundle to someone. ⬥ He bundled
his laundry off to his mother, who would wash it for him.
bung something in† to cram or bang something into something. ⬥ He bunged the cork into the barrel.
bung something up† to damage someone or something by
blows. ⬥ Don’t let the watermelon roll around in the
trunk of your car. You don’t want to bung it up.
bungle something up† to botch something; to mess something up. ⬥ Please don’t bungle this job up.
buoy someone or something up† to keep someone or something afloat. ⬥ Use this cushion to buoy yourself up. ⬥
The log buoyed up the swimmer until help came.
burn away 1. [for something] to burn until there is no
more of it. ⬥ All the oil burned away. 2. for something
to keep on burning. ⬥ The little fire burned away
brightly, warming the tiny room.
burn down 1. [for a building] to be destroyed by fire.
⬥ The barn burned down. ⬥ There was a fire, and the
old factory was burned down. 2. [for a fire] to burn and
dwindle away. ⬥ The flame burned down and then went
out.
burn (oneself) out Fig. to do something so long and so
intensely that one gets sick and tired of doing it. (See
also burn someone out.) ⬥ I burned myself out as a combundle someone up (against something)
30
petitive swimmer. I just cannot stand to practice anymore.
burn someone down† Sl. to humiliate someone. ⬥ You
just want to burn down everybody to make yourself seem
better.
burn someone out† Fig. to wear someone out; to make
someone ineffective through overuse. ⬥ The continuous problems burned out the office staff in a few months.
burn someone up† 1. Lit. to destroy someone by fire. ⬥
The house fire burned the victims up. 2. Fig. to make
someone very angry; to make someone endure the
“heat” of rage. ⬥ You really burn me up! I’m very angry
at you!
burn something down† [for a fire] to destroy a building
completely. ⬥ The fire burned the barn down.
burn something into something and burn something in†
1. Lit. to engrave, brand, or etch marks or letters into
something by the use of great heat. ⬥ She burned her
initials into the handle of the umbrella. 2. Fig. to implant
something firmly in someone’s head, brain, memory,
etc. ⬥ She burned the information into her head.
burn something off something and burn something off† to
cause excess volatile or flammable substance to burn
until there is no more of it. ⬥ We burnt the gasoline off
the water’s surface.
burn something out† 1. to burn away the inside of something, getting rid of excess deposits. ⬥ The mechanic
burned the carbon out of the manifold. 2. to wear out
an electrical or electronic device through overuse. ⬥
Turn it off. You’re going to burn the motor out!
burn something out
31
burn something up† to destroy something by fire; [for fire]
to consume something. ⬥ Take this cardboard and burn
it up.
bust someone out of some place and bust someone out†
1. Sl. to help someone escape from prison. (Bust is a
nonstandard form of burst meaning ‘break’ here.) ⬥
Lefty did not manage to bust Max out of prison. 2. Sl.
to expel or force someone to withdraw from school.
(Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning ‘break’
here.) ⬥ The dean finally busted Bill out of school.
bust someone up† 1. Sl. to cause lovers to separate; to
break up a pair of lovers, including married persons.
(Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning ‘break
(apart)’ here.) ⬥ Mary busted Terri and John up. 2. Sl.
to beat someone up; to batter someone. (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning ‘hit’ here.) ⬥ You want
me to bust you up?
bust something up† 1. Inf. to break or ruin something; to
break something into smaller pieces. (Bust is a nonstandard form of burst meaning ‘break’ here.) ⬥ Who
busted this plate up? 2. Sl. to ruin a marriage by coming between the married people. (Bust is a nonstandard
form of burst meaning ‘break’ here.) ⬥ He busted their
marriage up by starting rumors about Maggie.
bustle someone off† to help someone leave; to send someone out or away. ⬥ The cops bustled the crook off.
butter someone up† and butter up to someone to flatter
someone; to treat someone especially nicely in hopes of
receiving special favors. ⬥ A student tried to butter the
teacher up. ⬥ She buttered up the teacher again.
button something down† to fasten something down with
buttons. ⬥ Button your collar down. You look too casually dressed.
burn something up
32
button something up† to fasten something with buttons.
⬥ Button your shirt up, please.
buttress something up† 1. Lit. to brace something; to provide architectural support for something. ⬥ We have to
buttress up this part of the wall while we work on it.
2. Fig. to provide extra support, often financial support, for something. ⬥ We rounded up some money to
buttress the company up through the sales slump.
buy someone off† to bribe someone to ignore what one is
doing wrong. ⬥ Do you think you can buy her off ?
buy someone or something out† to purchase full ownership
of something from someone or a group. ⬥ We liked the
company, so we borrowed a lot of money and bought it
out.
buy something back† (from someone) to repurchase something that one has previously sold from the person who
bought it. ⬥ Can I buy it back from you? I have decided
I need it.
buy something out† to buy all that is available of a particular item. ⬥ The kids came in and bought all our bubble gum out.
buy something up† to buy all of something; to buy the
entire supply of something. ⬥ He bought the oranges
up from all the groves.
buy something up
33
cage someone or something in† 1. Lit. to enclose someone
or something in a cage. ⬥ We caged the monkey in, but
it threw a fit. 2. Fig. to confine someone or something.
⬥ The health authorities virtually caged in the quarantined population until they could all be tested.
cage someone or something up† (in something) to enclose or
confine someone or something in something or someplace. ⬥ They caged the lions up in strong containers for
the trip across country.
calculate something into something and calculate something in† to include something in one’s calculations. ⬥
Did you calculate the cost of the cake into the total?
call in (to some place) to telephone to some central place,
such as one’s place of work, as to check for messages.
⬥ I have to call in to the office at noon.
call someone away† (from something) to ask someone to
come away from some place or from doing something.
⬥ The boss called Kathy away from her office. ⬥ The
principal called away the teacher from the classroom.
call someone back† 1. to call someone again on the telephone. ⬥ Since she is not there, I will call her back in half
an hour. 2. to return a telephone call to a person who
had called earlier. ⬥ I got his message; I will call him
back tomorrow.
34
C
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
call someone down† to reprimand a person; to bawl someone out. ⬥ The teacher had to call down Sally in front of
everybody.
call someone forth† to call to someone to come out or
come forward. ⬥ The principal called Wally forth.
call someone in† (for something) 1. to request that someone come to have a talk. ⬥ The manager called Karen
in for a private meeting. 2. to request a consultation
with a specialist in some field. (The person called probably will not “come in,” but will work at another place.)
⬥ We will have to call a heart specialist in for a consultation.
call someone or an animal off someone or something and call
someone or an animal off† to request that someone or an
animal stop bothering or pursuing someone or something; to call a halt to an attack by someone or an animal. ⬥ Please call your dogs off my brother.
call someone or something back† to call out that someone
or something should come back. ⬥ As she left, the clerk
called her back.
call someone or something in† to call on the special talents,
abilities, or power of someone or something. ⬥ They
had to call a new doctor in. ⬥ Yes, they had to call in a
specialist.
call someone or something out† to request the services of
someone or a group. (See also call someone up; call someone out.) ⬥ Things got bad enough that the governor
called the militia out.
call someone or something up† to call someone, a group, or
a company on the telephone. ⬥ I will call them up and
see what they have to say.
call someone or something up
35
call someone out† to challenge someone to a fight. ⬥
Wilbur wanted to call him out, but thought better of it.
call someone up† to request that someone or a group
report for active military service. (See also call someone
or something out.) ⬥ The government called the reserve
units up for active service.
call something (back) in and call something in† to formally
request (usually by mail) that something be returned.
⬥ The car company called many cars back in for repairs.
call something down† (on someone) Fig. to invoke some
sort of divine punishment onto someone. ⬥ The
preacher sounded as though he was calling down the
wrath of God on us.
call something down† (to someone) to shout something to
a person on a lower level. ⬥ The worker called a warning down to the people below.
call something forth† [for an event] to draw a particular
quality or induce a particular behavior. ⬥ The battle
called extraordinary courage forth from the soldiers.
call something off† to cancel an event. ⬥ It’s too late to call
the party off. The first guests have already arrived.
call something out† 1. to draw on something, such as a particular quality or talent. ⬥ It’s times like these that call
the best out in us. 2. to shout out something. ⬥ You
should call out a warning to those behind you on the
trail.
call something up† to summon information from a computer. ⬥ With a few strokes on the computer keyboard,
Sally called up the figures she was looking for.
call the dogs off† 1. Lit. to order hunting or watchdogs
to abandon their quarry. ⬥ The robber gave up and the
call someone out
36
guard called the dogs off. 2. Fig. to stop threatening,
chasing, or hounding [a person]. ⬥ Tell the sheriff to call
off the dogs. We caught the robber.
calm someone or an animal down† to cause someone or an
animal to be less active, upset, or unsettled. ⬥ Please
try to calm yourself down!
camp out to live out of doors temporarily in a tent or
camping vehicle, as on a vacation or special camping
trip.
cancel each other out† [for the opposite effects of two
things] to balance each other. ⬥ The cost of the meal
you bought and what I owed you cancel each other out,
so we’re even.
cancel someone out of something and cancel someone out†
1. to eliminate someone from something (as from a list
of names). ⬥ We canceled out all the people who did not
show up. 2. Sl. to eliminate someone; to kill someone.
⬥ The drug lord threatened to cancel out his former partner for testifying against him.
cancel something out† to balance the effects of something.
⬥ Sending flowers might cancel the bad feelings out.
carry someone along† (with someone) [for someone’s
enthusiasm or power] to affect other people and persuade them. ⬥ The excitement of the play carried the
audience along with the actors.
carry someone along† (with something) [for something]
to transport someone as it moves along. ⬥ The flood
carried us along with the debris.
carry someone around† (with oneself) 1. Lit. to be the
source of transport for someone, usually a child. ⬥ I’m
tired of carrying this baby around with me everywhere.
Can’t I buy a baby carriage? 2. Fig. to have in mind the
carry someone around (with oneself)
37
memory or a sense of presence of another person with
oneself. ⬥ I have been carrying my dead grandfather
around with me for years.
carry someone away† [for someone or something] to
cause a person to lose control. ⬥ The excitement of the
parade carried us all away.
carry someone or something away† to take or steal someone
or something. ⬥ Someone carried our lawn furniture
away while we were on vacation.
carry someone or something off† to take or steal someone or
something. ⬥ The kidnappers carried the child off.
carry someone or something out† to lift up and move someone or something out. ⬥ Help me carry the baby and
her things out.
carry someone through (something) to sustain someone (as
someone’s expenses or needs) during something. ⬥ Can
this amount carry you through the week?
carry something along† (with someone) to bring or take
something with one; to have something with one and
have it handy at all times. ⬥ You should carry this emergency phone list along with you whenever you travel.
carry something around† (with one) to have something on
one’s person at all times. ⬥ He carries a backpack
around with him.
carry something back† to take something back to where it
came from. ⬥ Did you bring this here? If so, carry it
back. ⬥ Please carry back the empty box after you take
out all the books.
carry something down† to take something from a higher
to a lower place. ⬥ Would you go up to the attic and
carry the trunk down?
carry someone away
38
carry something off† 1. Lit. to take something away with
oneself; to steal something. ⬥ Someone carried off my
books! 2. Fig. to make a planned event work out successfully. ⬥ It was a huge party, but the hostess carried
it off beautifully.
carry something on† 1. to do something over a period of
time. ⬥ Do you think you can carry this on for a year?
2. to continue to do something as a tradition. ⬥ We
intend to carry this celebration on as long as the family
can gather for the holidays.
carry something out† to perform a task; to perform an
assignment. ⬥ “This is a very important job,” said Jane.
“Do you think you can carry it out?”
carry something over† to let something like a bill extend
into another period of time. ⬥ We’ll carry the amount
of money due over into the next month.
carry something over† (until some time) and carry something over† (to some time) to defer something until a particular time. ⬥ Can we carry this discussion over until
later?
cart someone or something off† to take or haul someone or
something away. (When used with someone the person
is treated like an object.) ⬥ The police came and carted
her off.
carve someone or something up† to damage someone or
something by careless or purposeful cutting (of a person, can be figurative). ⬥ Someone carved the tabletop
up. Who did it and why?
carve something out† to hollow something out by carving;
to make something hollow by carving. ⬥ Can he carve
a bowl out of such soft wood?
carve something out
39
carve something out† (of something) to remove something
from the inside of something else by carving or cutting.
⬥ She carved the insides out.
carve something up† to divide something up, perhaps carelessly. ⬥ The peace treaty carved the former empire up
into several countries.
case someone or something out† Sl. to look someone or
something over carefully, with a view to additional
activity at a later time. ⬥ He came into the room and
cased all the lighting fixtures out. ⬥ He cased out the fixtures to see which ones to replace.
cash something in† to exchange something with cash value
for the amount of money it is worth. ⬥ I should have
cashed my insurance policy in years ago.
cash something in† (for something) to exchange a security
for money; to convert a foreign currency to one’s own
currency; to turn gaming tokens or poker chips in for
money. ⬥ I cashed the bonds in for a cashier’s check. ⬥
I cashed in my bonds for their face value.
cast off (from something) [for the crew of a boat or ship]
to push away from the dock or pier; to begin the process of navigating a boat or ship. ⬥ The crew cast off
from the dock.
cast one’s eyes down† Fig. to tilt one’s head or gaze
downward. (Usually a sign of shame or to appear not
to have seen someone.) ⬥ She cast her eyes down as they
saw each other again.
cast one’s lot in† (with someone or something) to join in
with someone or a group. ⬥ He cast his lot in with the
others. ⬥ She cast in her lot with the others.
cast someone aside† and cast someone off†; cast someone
away† Fig. to dispose of someone; to reject or discard
carve something out (of something)
40
someone. ⬥ He simply cast his wife aside, and that was
it.
cast someone or something up† [for the waves] to bring up
and deposit someone or something on the shore. ⬥ The
waves cast the wreckage up, and it was found on the shore.
cast something down† to hurl or throw something down.
⬥ She cast the glass down, breaking it into a thousand
pieces.
catch someone out† to discover the truth about someone’s
deception. ⬥ The teacher caught out the student and
punished him immediately.
catch someone up (on someone or something) to tell someone the news of someone or something. (Fixed order.)
⬥ Oh, please catch me up on what your family is doing.
⬥ Yes, do catch us up!
catch something up† in something to ensnare and capture
something in something. ⬥ We caught a large number
of fish up in the net.
cement something on(to) something and cement something
on† to fasten something onto something with glue or
household cement. ⬥ Cement this handle back onto the
cup. ⬥ Now, cement on the other handle.
chain someone or an animal up† to bind someone or an animal in chains. ⬥ We will have to chain him up until the
police get here.
chain someone or something down† to fasten someone or
something down with chains. ⬥ They chained down the
bicycle rack so no one could steal it.
chain something up† to lock or secure a door or gate with
chains. ⬥ Please chain the gate up again when you come
through.
chain something up
41
chalk something out† 1. Lit. to draw a picture of something in chalk, especially to illustrate a plan of some
type. ⬥ The coach chalked the play out so the players
could understand what they were to do. 2. Fig. to explain
something carefully to someone, as if one were talking
about a chalk drawing.
chalk something up† 1. Lit. to write something on a chalkboard. ⬥ Let me chalk this formula up so you all can see
it. ⬥ I’ll chalk up the formula. 2. Fig. to add a mark or
point to one’s score. ⬥ Chalk another goal for Sarah. ⬥
Chalk up another basket for the other side.
chalk something up† (against someone) Fig. to blame
someone for something; to register something against
someone. ⬥ I will have to chalk another fault up against
Fred.
chalk something up† (to something) Fig. to recognize something as the cause of something else. ⬥ We chalked her
bad behavior up to her recent illness.
change off [for people] to alternate in doing something.
⬥ Tom and I changed off so neither of us had to answer
the phone all the time.
change something back† to cause something to return to
the original or a previous form. ⬥ Whoever changed the
television channel should change it back.
channel something off† 1. Lit. to drain off water or some
other liquid through a channel. ⬥ The front yard is
flooded, and we will have to channel the water off. ⬥
Let’s channel off the water before it gets too deep. 2. Fig.
to drain off or waste energy, money, effort, etc. ⬥
Unemployment channeled their resources off.
charge someone up† to excite someone; to make a person
enthusiastic about something. ⬥ He reread the report,
chalk something out
42
hoping to charge himself up enough to make some positive comments.
charge something up† 1. Lit. to apply an electrical charge
to a battery. ⬥ How long will it take to charge this battery up? 2. Lit. to load or fill something under pressure
or with special contents, such as a fire extinguisher. ⬥
We had to send the extinguishers back to the factory,
where they charged them up. 3. Fig. to reinvigorate
something. ⬥ What can we do to charge this story up?
⬥ A murder in the first act would charge up the play.
charge something up to someone or something and charge
something up† to place the cost of something on the
account of someone or a group. (Also without up.) ⬥
I will have to charge this up to your account. ⬥ Do you
have to charge this to my account?
chart something out† (for someone or something) to lay out
a plan or course for someone or something. ⬥ The navigator charted the course out for the captain.
chase someone or an animal in† Go to next.
chase someone or an animal in(to) some place and chase
someone or an animal in† to drive someone or an animal
into a place of confinement. ⬥ They chased all the cattle into the corral.
chase someone or something around† to follow someone or
something around in pursuit. (There is an implication
that the person or thing pursued is attempting to elude
whatever is in pursuit.) ⬥ The dog chased us around in
play.
chase someone or something (away†) from some place and
chase someone or something out of some place to drive
someone or something away from or out of a place. ⬥
The police sirens chased the thief from the building.
chase someone or something (away) from some place
43
chase someone or something down† to track down and seize
someone or something. ⬥ Larry set out to chase the
pickpocket down.
chase someone or something up† to seek someone or something out; to look high and low for someone or something. ⬥ I will chase Tom up for you.
check someone in† to record the arrival of someone. ⬥ Ask
the guard to check you in when you get there.
check someone or something off† to mark or cross out the
name of a person or thing on a list. ⬥ I am glad to see
that you were able to come. I will check you off. ⬥
I checked the items off.
check someone or something out† to evaluate someone or
something. ⬥ That stock sounds good. I’ll check it out.
check someone or something out† (of something) to do the
paperwork necessary to remove someone or something
from something or some place. ⬥ I will have the manager check you out of the hotel and send you the bill.
check something in† 1. to record that someone has
returned something. ⬥ I asked the librarian to check the
book in for me. 2. to take something to a place, return
it, and make sure that its return has been recorded.
3. to examine a shipment or an order received and
make certain that everything ordered was received. ⬥
I checked the order in and sent a report to the manager.
check something out† to examine or try something; to
think about something. ⬥ It’s something we all have to
be concerned with. Check it out.
cheer someone or something on† to encourage someone or
a group to continue to do well, as by cheering. ⬥ We
cheered them on, and they won.
chase someone or something down
44
cheer someone up† to make a sad person happy. ⬥ When
Bill was sick, Ann tried to cheer him up by reading to
him.
cheer up [for a sad person] to become happy. ⬥ After a
while, she began to cheer up and smile more.
chew someone or something up† to damage or ruin someone or something by pinching, grinding, biting, etc. ⬥
Stay away from the mower blade or it will chew you up.
chew something over† 1. Inf. to talk something over; to
discuss something. ⬥ We can chew it over at lunch. ⬥
Why don’t we do lunch sometime and chew over these
matters? 2. and chew on something Fig. to think something over. ⬥ I’ll have to chew it over for a while. I’m
not sure now. ⬥ I have to chew on all this stuff for a day
or two. Then I’ll get back to you.
chew something up† to grind food with the teeth until it
can be swallowed. ⬥ You had better chew that stuff up
well.
chip in (on something) and chip something in† (on something) 1. to contribute a small amount of money to a
fund that will be used to buy something. ⬥ Could you
chip in a dollar on the gift, please? 2. chip in (on something) (for someone) to contribute money toward a gift
for someone. ⬥ Would you please chip in on the present
for Richard? ⬥ Will you chip in for Randy?
choke someone off† to prevent someone from continuing
to talk. (A figurative use; does not imply physical choking.) ⬥ The opposition choked the speakers’ debate off
before they finished.
choke someone up† Fig. to cause someone to feel like starting to cry. ⬥ Sad stories like that always choke me up.
choke someone up
45
choke something back† to fight hard to keep something
from coming out of one’s mouth, such as sobs, tears,
angry words, vomit, etc. ⬥ I tried to choke the unpleasant words back, but I could not.
choke something down† to eat something, even though it
is hard to swallow or tastes bad. ⬥ The cough medicine
tasted terrible, but I managed to choke it down.
choke something off† 1. Lit. to restrict or strangle a living
creature’s windpipe. ⬥ The tight collar on the cat tended
to choke its airstream off. 2. Fig. to put an end to debate
or discussion; to stop the flow of words from any
source. ⬥ Are they going to choke the debate off ?
choke something up† 1. to clog something up; to fill up
and block something. ⬥ Branches and leaves choked the
sewer up. 2. to cough or choke until something that has
blocked one’s windpipe is brought up. ⬥ The old man
choked up the candy that was stuck in his windpipe.
choke up 1. to feel like crying. ⬥ I choked up when I
heard the news. ⬥ He was beginning to choke up as he
talked. 2. to become emotional or saddened so that one
cannot speak. ⬥ I choked up when I heard about the disaster.
chop something back† to prune vegetation; to reduce the
size of plants by cutting. ⬥ Why don’t you chop those
bushes back while you have the shears out?
chop something down† 1. Lit. to cut down something,
such as a tree, with an ax. ⬥ Please don’t chop my
favorite tree down. 2. Fig. to destroy something, such
as a plan or an idea. ⬥ The committee chopped the idea
down in its early stages.
chop something off (of) something and chop something off†
to cut something off something, as with an axe or saw.
choke something back
46
(Of is usually retained before pronouns.) ⬥ We chopped
the dead branches off the tree.
chuck something away† to throw something away; to dispose of something. ⬥ Would you please just chuck this
garbage bag away?
churn something out† to produce something in large numbers, perhaps carelessly. ⬥ We churn toys out by the
thousands.
churn something up† to stir up a liquid; to mix up material suspended in water. ⬥ The oars of our boat churned
the shallow water up, leaving little clouds of sediment in
our wake.
clam up to say nothing. (Closing one’s mouth in the way
that a clam closes up.) ⬥ The minute they got him in for
questioning, he clammed up.
clean one’s act up† to reform one’s conduct; to improve
one’s performance. ⬥ We were told to clean our act up
or move out.
clean someone or something down† to clean someone or
something by brushing or with flowing water. ⬥ He
was covered with mud, and we used the garden hose to
clean him down.
clean someone or something out of something and clean
someone or something out† to remove people or things
from something or some place. ⬥ Someone should clean
those bums out of political office.
clean someone or something up† to get someone or something clean. ⬥ Please go into the bathroom and clean
yourself up. ⬥ I’ll clean up the kids before we leave for
dinner.
clean someone or something up
47
clean someone out† 1. Fig. to get or use up all of someone’s money. ⬥ The bill for supper cleaned me out, and
we couldn’t go to the flick. 2. Fig. to empty someone’s
bowels. ⬥ That medicine I took really cleaned me out.
clean something out† to remove dirt or unwanted things
from the inside of something. ⬥ Someone has to clean
the garage out.
clean up (on something) Fig. to make a lot of money on
something. ⬥ The promoters cleaned up on the product.
clear something away† to take something away. ⬥ Please
clear the children’s toys away.
clear something up† 1. to make something more clear. ⬥
Let the muddy water stand overnight so it will clear up.
2. to explain something; to solve a mystery. ⬥ I think
that we can clear this matter up without calling in the
police. 3. to cause a rash or inflammation to return to
normal; to cause skin to “clear.” ⬥ There is some new
medicine that will clear your rash up. 4. to cure a disease or a medical condition. ⬥ The doctor will give you
something to clear up your congestion.
clip something on(to) someone or something and clip something on† to attach something to someone or something
with a clip. ⬥ I clipped a little name tag onto him before
I put him on the plane.
clock in to record one’s time of arrival, usually by punching a time clock. ⬥ What time did she clock in?
clock out to record one’s time of departure, usually by
punching a time clock. ⬥ I will clock out just before I go
home.
clock something up† 1. to record the accumulated hours,
miles, etc., of some device or machine. (The recording
is usually done by a meter of some type such as a
clean someone out
48
speedometer, an elapsed time meter, etc. ⬥ She must
have clocked two hundred flying hours up in six months.
2. to reach a goal that is worthy of being recorded.
(Typically sports journalism. Compare this with chalk
something up.) ⬥ Patrick clocked a fantastic number of
points up this year.
clog someone up† [for some kind of food] to constipate
someone. ⬥ This cheese clogs me up. I can’t eat it.
clog something up† [for something] to obstruct a channel
or conduit. ⬥ The leaves clogged the gutters up.
clog up [for a channel or conduit] to become blocked. ⬥
The canal clogged up with leaves and mud.
close down and shut down [for someone] to close a
business, office, shop, etc., permanently or temporarily. ⬥ This shop will have to close down if they raise taxes.
close someone or something down† to force someone or
someone’s business, office, shop, etc., to close permanently or temporarily. ⬥ The health department closed
the restaurant down.
close someone up† to close a surgical wound at the end of
a surgical procedure. ⬥ Fred, would you close her up for
me?
close something down† and shut something down† to
make something stop operating; to put something out
of business. ⬥ The police closed the illegal casino down.
close something off† to prevent entrance into something;
to block something off. ⬥ Please don’t close this passageway off.
close something out† 1. to sell off a particular kind of
merchandise with the intention of not selling it in the
future. ⬥ These are not selling. Let’s close them out. 2. to
close something out
49
prevent further registration in something. ⬥ We are
going to have to close this class out.
close something up† 1. to close someone’s business, office,
shop, etc., temporarily or permanently. ⬥ Tom’s restaurant nearly went out of business when the health department closed him up. ⬥ The health department closed up
the restaurant. 2. to close something that is open, such
as a door or a box. ⬥ Please close the door when you
leave.
close up 1. Lit. [for an opening] to close completely. ⬥
The door closed up and would not open again. 2. Fig. [for
a place of business] to close for business. ⬥ The store
closed up and did not open until the next day.
clue someone in† (on something) to inform someone of
something. ⬥ Please clue me in on what’s been going on.
clunk something down† to drop or place something heavily on something so that it makes a clunking noise. ⬥
He clunked the big box down on the table.
clutter something up† to mess something up; to fill something or some place up with too many things. ⬥ Heaps
of newspapers cluttered the room up and made it a fire
hazard.
coil something up† to roll or twist something into a coil.
⬥ Maria coiled the strip of stamps up and put them in
the little dispenser. ⬥ Please coil up the rope.
color something in† to paint or draw color on a pattern or
outline. ⬥ Here is a sketch. Please color it in. ⬥ Color in
the sketch, please.
come apart to break apart; to break up. ⬥ The missile
came apart in midair.
close something up
50
come away (from someone or something) to move away
from someone or something. ⬥ Please come away from
the fire. You will get burned if you don’t.
come back to return; to return to an advantageous or
favorable state or condition. ⬥ Walter practiced every
day, hoping to come back from his injury.
come forth to come out; to move forward and appear.
⬥ All the stage crew came forth and received some
applause.
come on 1. Stop it!; Stop doing that. (Usually Come
on!) ⬥ Mary: Are you really going to sell your new car?
Sally: Come on! How dumb do you think I am? 2. please
oblige me. ⬥ Mother: Sorry. You can’t go! Bill: Come on,
let me go to the picnic! 3. to hurry up; to follow someone. ⬥ If you don’t come on, we’ll miss the train. 4. [for
electricity or some other device] to start operating. ⬥
After a while, the lights came on again. 5. to walk out
and appear on stage. ⬥ You are to come on when you
hear your cue. 6. Fig. [for a pain] to begin hurting; [for
a disease] to attack someone. ⬥ The pain began to come
on again, and Sally had to lie down. 7. [for a program]
to be broadcast on radio or television. ⬥ The news
didn’t come on until an hour later.
come out 1. Lit. to exit; to leave the inside of a place. ⬥
When do you think they will all come out? 2. Fig. to
result; to succeed; to happen. ⬥ I hope everything comes
out fine. 3. Fig. to come before the public; [for a book]
to be published; [for a report] to be made public. ⬥ A
new magazine has just come out. 4. Fig. to become visible or evident. ⬥ His pride came out in his refusal to
accept help. ⬥ The real reason finally came out, and it
was not flattering. 5. Fig. [for a young woman] to make
a social debut. (Now only done in certain U.S. regions.)
⬥ Does your daughter plan to come out this year? 6. Fig.
come out
51
to reveal one’s homosexuality. ⬥ Herbie finally came
out when he was forty-five.
come together 1. to touch together; to meet. ⬥ The
ends of the boards just came together. They were almost
too short. 2. to attend something together; to arrive at
an event together. ⬥ Alice and I are going to come
together.
come up 1. Lit. to come from a lower place to a higher
one. ⬥ Come up and enjoy the view from the tallest
rooftop in the county. 2. Lit. to come near; to approach.
⬥ He came up and began to talk to us. ⬥ A heron came
up while we were fishing, but it just ignored us. 3. Fig.
to come to someone’s attention. ⬥ The question of what
time to be there never came up.
conduct someone out of something and conduct someone
out† to lead someone out of something or some place.
⬥ The usher conducted the gentleman out of the hall.
conjure someone or something up† 1. Lit. to make someone
or something appear, seemingly by the use of magic. ⬥
The magician conjured seven white doves up. 2. Fig. to
manage to locate someone or something. ⬥ I think I can
conjure a pencil up for you. ⬥ Do you think you can conjure up a large coffee urn in the next half hour? 3. Fig.
to manage to think up or imagine someone or something in one’s mind. ⬥ All I could do was to conjure up
happy memeories.
contract something out† to make an agreement with
someone to do a specific amount of work. (Rather than
doing it oneself or in one’s own place of business.) ⬥ I
will contract this out and have it done by consultants.
cook (something) out† to cook food out of doors. ⬥ Shall
we cook out some chicken tonight? ⬥ Yes, let’s cook out.
come together
52
cook something up† 1. Lit. to prepare a batch of some kind
of food by cooking. ⬥ Fred cooked a batch of beans up
for the ranch hands. 2. Fig. to devise or concoct something. ⬥ Fred cooked up a scheme that was supposed to
earn him a lot of money.
cook something up† (with someone) Fig. to arrange or plan
to do something with someone. (The something is usually the word something.) ⬥ I tried to cook something up
with Karen for Tuesday. ⬥ I want to cook up something
with John.
cool someone down† and cool someone off† 1. Lit. to
cool someone by reducing the heat or applying something cold. ⬥ Here, have a cold drink. Cool yourself
down. ⬥ We need to cool off the pudding in a hurry.
2. Fig. to reduce someone’s anger. (Reducing the “heat”
of anger.) ⬥ I just stared at him while he was yelling. I
knew that would cool him down. 3. Fig. to reduce someone’s passion or love. (Reducing the “heat” of passion.)
⬥ When she slapped him, that really cooled him down.
cool someone out† Sl. to calm someone; to appease someone. ⬥ The manager appeared and tried to cool out
everybody, but that was a waste of time.
coop someone or something up† to confine someone or
something in a small place. ⬥ Don’t coop me up. I can’t
stand small places.
copy something down† (from someone or something) to copy
onto paper what someone says; to copy onto paper what
one reads. ⬥ Please copy this down from Tony. ⬥ Ted
copied down the directions from the invitation.
cordon something off† to mark off an area where people
should not go with a rope, tape, ribbon, etc. ⬥ The
police cordoned the scene of the crime off, and we could
not even get close.
cordon something off
53
cork something up† 1. Lit. to close and seal a bottle with
a cork. ⬥ I think we should cork this up and save it for
later. 2. Fig. to stop up one’s mouth and be quiet. ⬥
Cork it up and listen!
cost something out† to figure out the total cost of some
set of costs or a complex purchase of goods or services.
⬥ Give me a minute to cost this out, and I will have an
estimate for you.
cough something up† 1. to get something out of the body
by coughing. ⬥ She coughed some matter up and took
some more medicine. 2. Euph. to vomit something. ⬥
The dog coughed the rabbit up. ⬥ The dog coughed up
the food it had eaten. 3. Sl. to produce or present something, such as an amount of money.
count off [for a series of people, one by one] to say aloud
the next number in a fixed sequence. ⬥ The soldiers
counted off by threes.
cork something up
54
cough something up (sense 3)
count someone in (for something) and count someone in
(on something); count someone in† to include someone
as part of something. ⬥ Please count me in for the party.
⬥ Do count me in on it.
count someone or something off† to count people or things,
to see if they are all there. (See also count off.) ⬥ Let’s
count them off to see who’s missing. ⬥ Count off each
person, one by one.
count someone or something up† to count things or people
to see how many there are. ⬥ Let’s count them up and
see how many we have. ⬥ I counted all the guests up,
and there are too many to seat.
count something in† to include something in a count of
something. ⬥ Did you count the tall ones in?
count something out† 1. to disregard something; to eliminate a possibility. ⬥ We’ll have to count out the possibility of his being elected. ⬥ Never count it out. It can
always happen. 2. to give out things, counting them one
by one. ⬥ She counted the cookies out, one by one.
cover someone or something up† to place something on
someone or something for protection or concealment.
⬥ Cover the pie up, so Terry won’t see it.
cover someone’s tracks (up)† to conceal one’s trail; to
conceal one’s past activities. ⬥ She was able to cover her
tracks up so that they couldn’t pin the charges on her. ⬥
It’s easy to cover up your tracks when the investigators
botch their job.
cover something up† 1. Lit. to place some sort of cover on
something. ⬥ Please cover up that mess with a cloth.
2. Fig. to conceal a wrongdoing; to conceal evidence.
⬥ They tried to cover the crime up, but the single footprint gave them away.
cover something up
55
crack down (on someone or something) to put limits on
someone or something; to become strict about enforcing rules about someone or something. ⬥ The police
cracked down on the street gangs.
crack someone up† to make someone laugh very hard; to
make someone break out laughing. ⬥ You and your
jokes really crack me up.
crack something up† to crash something; to destroy something (in an accident). ⬥ The driver cracked the car up
in an accident.
crank someone up† Fig. to motivate; to get someone
started. (See also crank something up.) ⬥ See if you can
crank up your brother and get him going on time today.
crank something out† Fig. to produce something quickly
or carelessly; to make something in a casual and
mechanical way. ⬥ John can crank a lot of work out in
a single day.
crank something up† 1. to get a machine or a process
started. (Alludes to turning the starting crank of an
early automobile.) ⬥ Please crank the machinery so the
workers can start working. 2. to increase the volume of
an electronic device. ⬥ He cranked it up a little more
and CRACK, there went both speakers!
crop out to appear on the surface; [for something] to
reveal itself in the open; to begin to show above the
surface.
crop someone or something out† [for a photographer] to cut
or trim out someone or something from a photograph.
⬥ The photographer cropped Mr. Jones out of the picture.
crop up to appear without warning; to happen suddenly;
[for something] to begin to reveal itself in the open. ⬥
Some new problems cropped up at the last minute.
crack down (on someone or something)
56
cross someone or something off (of) something and cross
someone or something off† to eliminate a name from a list
or record. (Of is usually retained before pronouns.) ⬥
We will have to cross her off of our list.
cross someone up† to give someone trouble; to defy or
betray someone; to spoil someone’s plans. (Also without up.) ⬥ You really crossed up Bill when you told Tom
what he said.
crum something up† and crumb something up† Sl. to mess
something up. ⬥ Who crummed the bird feeder up? ⬥
Now don’t crum up this deal.
crumble away to break away in little pieces. ⬥ The marble pillar was crumbling away because of the acidic rain.
crumble something up† (into something) to crunch up or
break up something into pieces. ⬥ Now, crumble the
dried bread up into crumbs.
crumble up to break up into little pieces. ⬥ The cake,
which was very dry, crumbled up when I tried to cut it.
crumple something up† to fold up or crush someone or
something. ⬥ Walter crumpled the paper up.
crunch someone or something up† to break someone or
something up into pieces. ⬥ That machine will crunch
you up. Stay away from it! ⬥ A number of blows with
the hammer crunched up the rocks into pebbles.
crush someone or something down† 1. Lit. to press or force
someone or something down. ⬥ Crush the leaves down
so you can put more into the basket. 2. Fig. to suppress
someone or something. ⬥ The dictator crushed the
opposition down ruthlessly. ⬥ He crushed down all political opposition.
crush someone or something down
57
crush something in† to force something inward; to break
something in. ⬥ The beam nearly crushed Jason’s head
in.
crush something out† to put out a cigarette or small flame
by crushing. ⬥ She crushed her cigarette out and put the
butt into the sink.
crush something up† to reduce the mass of something by
crushing. ⬥ Crush this up and put it in the sauce.
cue someone in† 1. Lit. to give someone a cue; to indicate
to someone that the time has come. ⬥ Now, cue the
orchestra director in. 2. Fig. to tell someone what is
going on. ⬥ I want to know what’s going on. Cue me in.
curl something up† to roll something up into a coil. ⬥ She
curled the edges of the paper up while she spoke.
curtain something off† to separate something or some
place with a drape, screen, or curtain. ⬥ We curtained
this part of the room off, so please sleep over there.
cut back to turn back; to reverse direction. ⬥ The road
cuts back about a mile ahead, and it goes west again.
cut off 1. to stop by itself or oneself. ⬥ The machine got
hot and cut off. 2. to turn off a road, path, highway, etc.
⬥ This is the place where you are supposed to cut off.
cut someone down† to kill someone with a weapon, such
as a sword, or with gunfire, etc. ⬥ The bandits cut the
bystanders down and fled.
cut someone in† (on something) Sl. to permit someone to
share something, such as profits or loot. ⬥ Max refused
to cut in his partner Lefty.
cut someone or something off† (from something) to block or
isolate someone or something from some place or
something. ⬥ They cut the cattle off from the wheat field.
crush something in
58
cut someone or something out† to eliminate someone or
something. ⬥ They cut out the free coffee with lunch at
the cafeteria.
cut someone or something up† Fig. to criticize someone or
something severely. ⬥ Jane is such a gossip. She was
really cutting Mrs. Jones up.
cut someone up† 1. Lit. to gash or carve on someone by
cutting. ⬥ The thugs cut him up badly, just for talking
back. ⬥ They cut up their victim into pieces. 2. Fig. to
cause someone severe emotional distress. ⬥ That rebuke
really cut me up.
cut something back† to prune plants; to reduce the size of
plants, bushes, etc. ⬥ Let’s cut these bushes back. They’re
getting in the way.
cut something down† 1. Lit. to chop something down; to
saw or cut at something until it is felled. ⬥ Stop cutting
the banners down! 2. Fig. to destroy someone’s argument; to destroy someone’s position or standing. ⬥ The
lawyer cut the testimony down quickly. 3. to reduce the
price of something. ⬥ They cut the prices down to sell
the goods off quickly.
cut something off† 1. to shorten something. ⬥ Cut this
board off a bit, would you? 2. to turn something off,
such as power, electricity, water, the engine, etc. ⬥
Would you please cut that engine off ?
cut something out† to stop doing something. (Usually a
command.) ⬥ Cut that noise out!
cut something out
59
dam something up† to erect a barrier in a river, stream,
brook, etc. ⬥ We are going to have to dam this stream
up to make a pond for the cattle. ⬥ Let’s dam up this
stream.
damp something down† 1. Lit. to make something damp.
⬥ Damp the clothes down before you iron them. 2. Fig.
to reduce the intensity of a flame, usually by cutting
down on the air supply, as with a damper. ⬥ Please
damp the woodstove down.
dash something off† to make or do something quickly. ⬥
I will dash this off now and try to take more time with
the rest of them.
dawdle along to move along slowly and casually. ⬥ We
were just dawdling along, talking about life. We didn’t
know we were late.
deal someone into something and deal someone in† 1. Lit.
to pass out cards to someone, making that person a
player in a card game. ⬥ Deal in anyone who wants to
play. ⬥ Deal me in! 2. Fig. to permit someone to take
part in something. ⬥ Let’s deal him into this project.
deal someone out of something and deal someone out†
1. Lit. to skip someone when dealing a hand of cards.
⬥ Please deal me out of the next hand. I have to go make
a telephone call. 2. Fig. to remove someone from par60
D
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
ticipation in something. ⬥ They dealt me out at the last
minute.
deal something out† to pass something out piece by piece,
giving everyone equal shares. ⬥ The manager dealt the
proposals out, giving each person an equal number to
read. ⬥ I’ll deal out some more proposals.
dent something up† to mar or make depressions in something. ⬥ I don’t want to dent my car up. It’s still new.
die away Fig. to fade away. ⬥ The sound of the waterfall
finally died away.
die back [for vegetation] to die back to the stems or
roots. ⬥ The hedge died back in the winter but regenerated leaves in the spring.
die down to fade to almost nothing; to decrease gradually. ⬥ As the applause died down, a child came on stage
with an armload of roses for the singer.
dig one’s heels in† Fig. to refuse to alter one’s course of
action or opinions; to be obstinate or determined. ⬥
The student dug her heels in and refused to obey the
instructions.
dig someone or something up† Fig. to go to great effort to find
someone or something. (There is an implication that
the thing or person dug up is not the most desirable,
but is all that could be found.) ⬥ Mary dug a date up
for the dance next Friday.
dig something out† Fig. to work hard to locate something
and bring it forth. ⬥ They dug the contract out of the
file cabinet.
dim something down† to make lights dim; to use a dimmer to make the lights dimmer. ⬥ Why don’t you dim
the lights down and put on some music?
dim something down
61
dirty something up† Rur. to get something dirty. ⬥ Those
pants are brand-new! Don’t dirty them up!
dish something out† 1. Lit. to serve up food to people. ⬥
Careful how you dish out the mashed potatoes. There
may not be enough. 2. Fig. to distribute information,
news, etc. ⬥ The press secretaries were dishing reports out
as fast as they could write them. 3. Fig. to give out trouble, scoldings, criticism, etc. ⬥ The boss was dishing
criticism out this morning, and I really got it.
divide something (off†) (from something or animals) 1. to
separate something from something else. ⬥ Let’s divide
the chickens off from the ducks and put the chickens in
the shed. 2. to separate something from something else,
using a partition. ⬥ We divided the sleeping area off
from the rest of the room.
divide something (up†) (between someone or something)
and divide something (up†) (among someone or something) to give something out in shares to people or
dirty something up
62
dish something out (sense 2)
groups. (More informal with up. Between with two;
among with more.) ⬥ Please divide this up between the
visitors. ⬥ Cut the birthday cake and divide it up among
all the party guests.
do something up† 1. to fasten, zip, hook, or button some
item of clothing. ⬥ Would you do my buttons up in
back? 2. to wrap up something, such as a package, gift,
etc. ⬥ I have to do this present up before the party guests
get here. 3. to arrange, fix, repair, cook, clean, etc.,
something. ⬥ I have to do the kitchen up before the
guests get here.
doctor someone up† to give someone medical treatment,
especially first aid. ⬥ Give me a minute to doctor Fred
up, and then we can continue our walk.
dole something out† (to someone) to distribute something
to someone. ⬥ The cook doled the oatmeal out to each
camper who held out a bowl. ⬥ Please dole out the candy
bars, one to a customer.
doll someone up† to dress someone up in fancy clothes. ⬥
She dolled her children up for church each Sunday.
dope someone or an animal up† to give drugs to someone or
an animal. ⬥ Her parents doped her up with medicine
so she would sleep through the night.
dope something out† 1. Sl. to figure something out. ⬥ He
spent a lot of time trying to dope the assignment out so
he could understand it. 2. Sl. to explain something carefully. ⬥ He doped it all out to them very carefully so that
no one would be confused.
double over [for a person] to bend at the waist. ⬥ The
people in the audience doubled over with laughter.
double over
63
double someone over† to cause someone to bend at the
waist. ⬥ The blow to the back of the head doubled Steve
over.
double something over† to fold something over. ⬥ Double the paper over twice, then press it flat. ⬥ Double over
the cloth a few times before you pack it away.
double up (with pain) to bend at the waist with severe
pain. ⬥ The man doubled up with pain when he was
stabbed.
drag someone in† (on something) to force someone to join
something or participate in something. ⬥ Don’t drag me
in on this.
drag someone or something down† 1. Lit. to pull someone
or something to the ground or to a lower level. ⬥ The
lions dragged the antelope down and made dinner out of
it. 2. Fig. to debase someone or something; to corrupt
someone or something. ⬥ The bad acting dragged the
level of the performance down.
drag something out† to make something last for a long
time. ⬥ Why does the chairman have to drag the meeting out so long? ⬥ Don’t drag out the meetings so long!
drag something out of someone and drag something out†
to force someone to reveal something; to extract an
answer or information out of someone laboriously. ⬥
Why don’t you just tell me? Do I have to drag it out of
you? ⬥ We had to drag out the information, but she
finally told us.
drag something up† to pull something close, such as a chair,
stool, etc., to sit in. ⬥ Drag up a chair and sit for a while.
drain away [for something] to flow away. ⬥ All the water
drained away and exposed the mud and rocks on the botdouble someone over
64
tom of the pond. ⬥ When the water drained away, we
found three snapping turtles in the bottom of the pond.
drain out to flow out or empty. ⬥ All the milk drained
out of the container onto the bottom of the refrigerator.
drain something off something and drain something off† to
cause or permit something to flow from the surface or
contents of something. ⬥ Drain some of the broth off
the chicken.
drain something out of something and drain something out†
to cause something to flow from something; to empty
all of some liquid out of something. ⬥ She drained the
last drop out of the bottle.
draw people or things together† to pull people together; to
pull things together. ⬥ She drew her toys together in
preparation for leaving.
draw someone aside† to pull or steer someone aside. ⬥
The teacher drew Bob aside to have a word with him.
draw something out† 1. to make something have greater
length. ⬥ He drew out a long strand of melted cheese
and tried to drop it into his mouth. 2. to extend something in time. ⬥ Do we have to draw this thing out? Let’s
get it over with. ⬥ Stop drawing out the proceedings.
3. Lit. to draw a picture to make something more clear.
⬥ Here, I’ll draw it out so you can see what I mean.
draw something up† 1. Lit. to pull something close by, such
as a chair, stool, etc. ⬥ Draw a chair up and sit down.
⬥ She drew up a pillow and sat on the floor. 2. Fig. to
draft a document; to prepare a document. ⬥ Who will
draw a contract up?
dream something away† Fig. to waste away a period of
time having fantasies. ⬥ I just want to sit in the sun and
dream the day away. ⬥ Don’t dream away your life!
dream something away
65
dream something up† Fig. to invent something; to fabricate something. (The something can be the word something.) ⬥ I don’t know what to do, but I’ll dream
something up. ⬥ Please dream up a solution for this problem.
dress someone down† to bawl someone out; to give someone a good scolding. ⬥ The drill sergeant dressed down
the entire squadron for failing inspection.
dress someone or something up† to make someone or something appear fancier than is actually so. ⬥ The publicity specialist dressed the actress up a lot.
drink something down† to drink something; to consume
all of something by drinking it. ⬥ Here, drink this
down, and see if it makes you feel better.
drink something in† Fig. to absorb something; to take in
information, sights, a story, etc. ⬥ Terry and Amy drove
up to the top of the hill to drink the sights in.
drink something up† to drink all of something that is
served or that is on hand. ⬥ Who drank all the root beer
up?
drive away to leave some place driving a vehicle. ⬥ They
got in the car and drove away. ⬥ They drove away and
left us here.
drive back to go in a vehicle back to where it started. ⬥
Mary drove back and parked the car where it had been
when she started.
drive off to leave somewhere, driving a vehicle. ⬥ She got
in her car and drove off. ⬥ Please don’t drive off and
leave me!
dream something up
66
drive on to continue driving; to continue with one’s journey. ⬥ The traffic jam is breaking up, so we can drive
on.
drive someone or an animal away† (from something or some
place) to repel someone or an animal from something
or some place. ⬥ We drove the monkeys away from the
pineapples.
drive someone or something back† to force someone or
something away; to force someone or something to
retreat. ⬥ The infantry drove the attackers back into the
desert. ⬥ They drove back the invading army.
drive someone or something off† to repel or chase away
someone or something. ⬥ The campers drove the cows
off before the animals trampled the tents.
drone something out† to make a loud and low-pitched
noise; to say something in a low-pitched and monotonous manner. ⬥ The announcer droned the winning
numbers out.
drop away 1. Lit. to fall off; to fall away. ⬥ The leaves
were still dropping away from the trees in November.
2. Fig. [for a group of people] to decline in number
over time through disinterest or attrition. ⬥ His friends
gradually dropped away as the years passed.
drop back 1. to fall back to an original position. ⬥ His
arm raised up and then dropped back. ⬥ The lid dropped
back to its original position as soon as we let go of it.
2. to go slowly and lose one’s position in a march or
procession. ⬥ He dropped back a bit and evened up the
spacing in the line of marchers.
drop behind (in something) to fail to keep up with a
schedule. ⬥ She is dropping behind and needs someone
to help her.
drop behind (in something)
67
drop someone or something off† (some place) 1. Lit. to let
someone or a group out of a vehicle at a particular
place; to deliver someone or something some place. ⬥
Let’s drop these shirts off at the cleaners. 2. Fig. to give
someone or a group a ride to some place. ⬥ Can I drop
you off somewhere in town? ⬥ I dropped off the kids at
the party.
drown someone or an animal out† [for a flood] to drive
someone or an animal away from home. ⬥ The high
waters almost drowned the farmers out last year.
drown someone or something out† [for a sound] to be so
loud that someone or something cannot be heard. ⬥
The noise of the passing train drowned out our conversation.
drum something out† to beat a rhythm, loudly and clearly,
as if teaching it to someone. ⬥ Drum the rhythm out
before you try to sing this song.
drum something up† to obtain something by attracting
people’s attention to one’s need or cause. ⬥ I shall try
to drum up support for the party. ⬥ You shall have to
drum up new business by advertising.
dry out 1. Lit. to become dry. ⬥ The clothes finally dried
out in the wet weather. 2. Fig. to allow alcohol and the
effects of drunkenness, especially if habitual, to dissipate from one’s body. ⬥ He required about three days
to dry out completely.
dry someone or something off† to remove the moisture from
someone or something. ⬥ Please dry your feet off before
coming in.
dry someone out† Fig. to cause someone to become sober;
to cause someone to stop drinking alcohol to excess. ⬥
If the doctor at the clinic can’t dry him out, no one can.
drop someone or something off (some place)
68
dry something out† to make something become dry. ⬥ Dry
this out and put it on immediately. ⬥ Dry out your jacket
in the clothes dryer.
dry something up† 1. to cause moisture to dry away to
nothing. ⬥ Dry this spill up with the hair dryer. ⬥ Will
the hair dryer dry up this mess? 2. to cure a skin rash
by the use of medicine that dries. ⬥ Let’s use some of
this to try to dry that rash up.
dub something in† to mix a new sound recording into an
old one. ⬥ The actor messed up his lines, but they dubbed
the correct words in later.
dust someone off† Sl. to punch or beat someone. ⬥ We
dusted them off one by one.
dust someone or something off† to wipe or brush the dust
off someone or something. ⬥ Dust this vase off and put
it on the shelf.
dwindle away (to something) and dwindle down (to
something) to shrink, contract, or diminish to something.
⬥ The noise dwindled away to nothing.
dwindle away (to something)
69
ease off [for something] to diminish. ⬥ The rain began
to ease off. ⬥ The storm seems to have eased off a little.
ease someone out of something and ease someone out†
1. Lit. to get someone out of something carefully. ⬥ The
paramedics eased the injured man out of the wreckage.
2. Fig. to get someone out of an office or position quietly and without much embarrassment. ⬥ We eased the
sheriff out of office without a fight.
eat someone up† 1. Lit. to consume the flesh of someone.
⬥ The big bad wolf said he was going to eat you up! ⬥
The bear ate up the fish. 2. Fig. [for an idea] to consume
a person. ⬥ The whole idea of visiting Australia was just
eating her up. 3. Fig. [for insects] to bite a person all
over. ⬥ These mosquitoes are just eating me up! 4. Fig.
[for someone] to overwhelm and devastate someone. ⬥
The guy is a devil! He just eats up people!
eat something away† to erode something; to consume
something bit by bit. ⬥ The acid ate the finish away.
eat something out† 1. to eat some kind of meal or a particular food away from home, as at a restaurant. ⬥ We
eat fish out, but we don’t cook it at home. ⬥ We may eat
out a meal or two, but certainly not every meal. 2. [for
something or an animal] to consume the inside of
something. ⬥ The ants ate the inside of the pumpkin
out.
70
E
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
eat something up† 1. and eat an animal up† Lit. to devour
all of some food or an animal. ⬥ They ate the turkey
up, and no one had to eat leftovers. 2. Fig. to consume
something rapidly, such as money. ⬥ Running this
household eats my income up. 3. Fig. to believe something. ⬥ Those people really eat that stuff up about tax
reduction. 4. Fig. to appreciate something. ⬥ The audience liked my singing; they really ate it up.
eke something out† to extend something; to add to something. ⬥ He worked at two jobs in order to eke his income
out.
elbow someone aside† to push someone aside with one’s
elbow or arm. ⬥ She elbowed the other woman aside
and there was almost a fight.
empty someone out† to cause someone to empty the bowels, stomach, or bladder. ⬥ This medication will empty
you out. ⬥ This stuff could empty out an army!
empty something out† to remove or pour all of the contents from something. ⬥ Please empty this drawer out
and clean it. ⬥ She emptied out the aquarium and
cleaned it well.
end something up† to terminate something; to bring something to an end. ⬥ He ended his vacation up by going to
the beach. ⬥ She ended up her speech with a poem.
even something out† to make something even or level. ⬥
Please even the gravel out. ⬥ They evened out the surface of the road.
even something up† to make something even, square, level,
equal, balanced, etc. ⬥ I’ll even the table up.
explain something away† to explain something so that it
is no longer a problem. ⬥ You can try to explain it away
if you want, but that won’t solve the problem.
explain something away
71
face off 1. to begin a hockey game with two players facing one another. ⬥ They faced off and the match was on.
2. to prepare for a confrontation. ⬥ The opposing candidates faced off and the debate began.
face someone down† to make a face-to-face stand with
someone who eventually backs down. ⬥ Facing down
Tom wasn’t difficult for Chuck.
fade down [for sound] to diminish. ⬥ The roar of the
train faded down as it passed and fled into the night.
fade something down† to turn down a sound. (Broadcasting.) ⬥ The radio engineer faded the music down
and the announcer’s voice began.
fade something in† to bring a picture, sound, or both into
prominence. (Broadcasting.) ⬥ The technician faded
the picture in and the program began.
fade something out† to diminish something altogether.
(Broadcasting.) ⬥ At the end, you should fade the music
out completely.
fade something up† to increase the sound gradually.
(Broadcasting.) ⬥ The director faded the music up and
then down again before the announcer spoke.
fake someone out† to deceive someone; to fool someone.
⬥ You really faked me out. I never would have guessed it
was you.
72
F
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
fall out 1. to happen; to result. ⬥ As things fell out, we
had a wonderful trip. 2. to leave one’s place in a formation when dismissed. (Usually in scouting or the
military. The opposite of fall in.) ⬥ The scouts fell out
and ran to the campfire. ⬥ All the soldiers fell out and
talked among themselves.
fall over to topple over and fall down. ⬥ The fence fell
over and dented the car. ⬥ I felt faint, and I almost
fell over.
fall through [for something, such as plans] to fail. ⬥
Our party for next Saturday fell through. ⬥ I hope our
plans don’t fall through.
fan something out† to spread something out so that all
parts can be seen better. (As one opens a wood and
paper fan.) ⬥ Todd fanned the cards out so we could see
which ones he held.
farm someone out† 1. [for someone in control] to send
someone to work for someone else. ⬥ I have farmed my
electrician out for a week, so your work will have to wait.
2. to send a child away to be cared for by someone; to
send a child to boarding school. ⬥ We farmed the kids
out to my sister for the summer.
farm something out† 1. to deplete the fertility of land by
farming too intensely. ⬥ They farmed their land out
through careless land management. 2. to send work to
someone to be done away from one’s normal place of
business; to subcontract work. ⬥ We farmed the assembly work out.
fasten something up† to close something up, using buttons,
a zipper, snaps, hooks, a clasp, or other things meant
to hold something closed. ⬥ Please fasten this up for
me. I can’t reach the zipper.
fasten something up
73
feel someone out† (about someone or something) Fig. to find
out what someone thinks about someone or something.
(This does not involve touching anyone.) ⬥ I will feel
him out about what he thinks about going to Florida.
feel someone up† to feel someone sexually. (Use discretion
with topic.) ⬥ I heard him say he really wanted to feel
her up.
fence an animal in† to enclose an animal and its area
within a fence or barrier. ⬥ We fenced the dog in to keep
it at home.
fence someone in† to restrict someone in some way. ⬥
I don’t want to fence you in, but you have to get home
earlier at night. ⬥ Don’t try to fence me in. I need a lot
of freedom.
fence someone or something off† (from something) to separate someone or something from something else with
a fence or barrier. ⬥ We fenced the children’s play area
feel someone out (about someone or something)
74
fence someone in
off from the rest of the yard. ⬥ Dave fenced off the play
area.
fence something in† to enclose an area within a fence. ⬥
When they fenced the garden in, they thought the deer
wouldn’t be able to destroy the flowers.
ferret something out† (from something) Fig. to fetch something out from something. ⬥ We will have to ferret the
mouse out from behind the stove.
ferry someone around† to transport people here and there
in small groups. ⬥ I really don’t want to spend all my
days ferrying children around.
fiddle something away† to waste something. ⬥ Don’t fiddle away the afternoon. Get to work.
fight someone or something down† to fight against and
defeat someone or something. ⬥ We fought the opposition down and got our bill through the committee.
fight someone or something off† to repel an attack from
someone or something. ⬥ We fought the enemy attack
off, but they returned almost immediately. ⬥ She fought
off the mosquitoes all evening.
fight something down† 1. to struggle to hold something
back; to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by
something. ⬥ She fought her anger down and managed
to stay calm. 2. to struggle to swallow something; to
fight to get something down one’s throat. ⬥ It tasted
terrible, but I managed to fight it down.
fight something out† to settle something by fighting. ⬥ Do
we have to fight this out? Can’t we use reason? ⬥ I prefer to fight out this matter once and for all.
figure someone or something in((to) something) and figure
someone or something in† to reckon someone or something
figure someone or something in((to) something)
75
into the total. ⬥ I will figure the electric bill into the
total.
figure something up† to add up the amount of something.
⬥ Please figure the bill up. We have to go now.
file something (away†) to put something away, usually in
a file folder or file cabinet. ⬥ She filed the letter away
for future reference.
file something down† to level off a protrusion by filing. ⬥
File this edge down so no one gets cut on it.
fill in [for an indentation, hole, etc.] to become full. ⬥
Will this hole in the ground fill in by itself, or should I
put some dirt in?
fill someone in† (on someone or something) to tell someone
the details about someone or something. ⬥ Please fill
me in on what happened last night.
fill someone or something up† (with something) to put as
much as possible into someone or something. ⬥ We
filled him up with chili and crackers. ⬥ We will fill up
the basket with leaves.
fill something in† 1. to add material to an indentation, hole,
etc., to make it full. ⬥ You had better fill the crack in
with something before you paint the wall. 2. Fig. to write
in the blank spaces on a paper; to write on a form. ⬥
Please fill this form in.
fill something out† Fig. to complete a form by writing in
the blank spaces. ⬥ Please fill this form out and send it
back to us in the mail.
fill up 1. to become full. ⬥ The creek filled up after the
heavy rain yesterday. 2. to fill one’s gas tank. ⬥ I’ve got
to stop and fill up. The gas tank is running low.
figure something up
76
find someone in to learn or discover that one is at home;
to learn or discover that one is in one’s office. ⬥ I never
expected to find you in at this time of night.
find someone out 1. to discover that someone is not at
home. ⬥ We knocked on their door and found them out.
2. to discover something surprising or shocking about
someone.
find something out† to discover facts about someone or
something; to learn a fact. ⬥ I found something out that
you might be interested in.
finish someone or something off† Fig. to complete some
activity being performed on someone or something. ⬥
Let’s finish this one off and go home. ⬥ Yes, let’s finish
off this one.
finish someone or something up† Fig. to finish doing something to someone or something. ⬥ I will finish this typing up in a few minutes.
finish something off† Fig. to eat or drink up all of something; to eat or drink up the last portion of something.
⬥ Let’s finish the turkey off.
fire something back† (to someone or something) Fig. to send
something back to someone or a group immediately. ⬥
Look this over and fire it back to me immediately.
fire something off† (to someone) Fig. to send something to
someone immediately, by a very rapid means. ⬥ Fire a
letter off to Fred, ordering him to return home at once.
⬥ I fired off a letter to Fred as you asked.
fire something up† 1. Lit. to light something, such as a
pipe, cigarette, etc. ⬥ If you fire that pipe up, I will leave
the room. 2. Fig. to start something such as an engine.
⬥ Fire this thing up, and let’s get going.
fire something up
77
firm something up† 1. Lit. to make something more stable
or firm. ⬥ We need to firm this table up. It is very wobbly. 2. Fig. to make a monetary offer for something
more appealing and attractive and therefore more
“solid” and likely to be accepted. ⬥ You will have to
firm the offer up with cash today, if you really want the
house.
firm up 1. Lit. to develop better muscle tone; to become
less flabby. ⬥ I need to do some exercises so I can firm
up. 2. Fig. to become more stable or viable; to recover
from or stop a decline. ⬥ The economy will probably
firm up soon.
fit someone or something out† (for something) to equip someone or something for something; to outfit someone or
something for something. ⬥ We are going to fit our boat
out so we can live on it during a long cruise.
fit someone or something out† (with something) to provide or
furnish someone or something with something. ⬥ They
fit out the campers with everything they needed. ⬥
They fit them out for only $140.
fit someone or something up† (with something) and fit someone or something (up†) with something to provide someone or something with something for a particular
purpose. ⬥ We fit the couple up with fins, masks, and
snorkels for skin diving. ⬥ The clerk fitted up the couple
with diving gear for their vacation.
fit something together† to put the parts of something
together. ⬥ First you have to fit the pieces together to see
if they are all there. ⬥ I think I can fit the parts of the
model airplane together.
fit together [for things] to conform in shape to one
another. ⬥ All the pieces of the puzzle fit together. They
really do.
firm something up
78
fix someone or something up† to rehabilitate someone or
something. ⬥ The doctor said he could fix me up with
a few pills.
fix someone up† (with something) to supply someone with
something. ⬥ I will fix you up with some alcohol and
bandages. ⬥ The clerk fixed up the lady with what she
needed.
fizzle out 1. Lit. [for a liquid] to lose its effervescence.
⬥ This seltzer has fizzled out. I need a fresh glass of it.
2. Fig. [for an item in a fireworks display] to fail to
operate properly, often producing only a hiss. ⬥ That
last rocket fizzled out. Set off another one. 3. Fig. to fade
or become ineffectual gradually. ⬥ The party began to
fizzle out about midnight.
flack out and flake out Sl. to collapse with exhaustion;
to lie down because of exhaustion. ⬥ All the hikers
flacked out when they reached the campsite.
flag someone or something down† to signal or wave, indicating that someone should stop. ⬥ Please go out and
flag a taxi down. I’ll be right out.
flake off ((of) something) [for bits of something] to break
away from the whole, perhaps under pressure or
because of damage. (Of is usually retained before pronouns.) ⬥ Little bits of marble began to flake off the
marble steps.
flame up 1. [for something] to catch fire and burst into
flames. ⬥ The trees flamed up one by one in the forest
fire. 2. [for a fire] to expand and send out larger flames.
⬥ The raging fire flamed up and jumped to even more
trees.
flame up
79
flare out to spread out; to widen. (Said especially of one
opening of a tube or round-topped vessel.) ⬥ The end
of the pipe flared out to a larger diameter.
flare up 1. Lit. [for something] to ignite and burn. ⬥ The
firewood flared up at last—four matches having been
used. 2. Lit. [for a fire] to burn brightly again and
expand rapidly. ⬥ After burning quietly for a while, the
fire suddenly flared up and made the room very bright.
3. Fig. [for a pain or medical condition] to get worse
suddenly. ⬥ My arthritis flares up during the damp
weather. 4. Fig. [for a dispute] to break out or escalate
into a battle. ⬥ A war flared up in the Middle East. ⬥
We can’t send the whole army every time a dispute flares
up. 5. and flare up at someone or something Fig. to lose
one’s temper at someone or something. ⬥ I could tell
by the way he flared up at me that he was not happy with
what I had done. ⬥ I didn’t mean to flare up.
flash something around† to display something so everyone can see it. (Usually something one would hold in
one’s hand.) ⬥ Don’t flash your money around on the
streets.
flatten someone or something out† to make someone or
something flat. ⬥ If you fall under the steamroller, it
will flatten you out.
flesh something out† (with something) Fig. to make something more detailed, bigger, or fuller. ⬥ This is basically a good outline. Now you’ll have to flesh it out.
flick something off† to turn something off, using a toggle
switch. ⬥ Mary flicked the light off and went out of the
room. ⬥ Please flick the light off as you go out the door.
flick something on† to turn something on, using a toggle
switch. ⬥ Mary came into the room and flicked the light
on.
flare out
80
fling someone or something aside† to toss or sling someone
or something aside or out of the way. ⬥ She flung aside
the covers and leaped out of bed.
fling someone or something away† to throw or sling someone or something away or out of the way. ⬥ You can’t
just fling me away! I am your eldest son!
fling someone or something down† to throw or push someone or something down. ⬥ He flung the book down in
great anger.
flit about to move about quickly; to dart about. ⬥ A
large number of hummingbirds were flitting about.
flock together to gather together in great numbers.
(Typically said of birds and sheep.) ⬥ A large number
of blackbirds flocked together, making a lot of noise.
flop down to sit down heavily or awkwardly. ⬥ Be graceful. Don’t just flop down!
flop someone or something over† to turn someone or something over, awkwardly or carelessly. ⬥ They flopped the
unconscious man over, searching for his identification.
fluff something up† to make something soft appear fuller
or higher. ⬥ Fluff your pillow up before you go to bed.
flush something away† to wash something unwanted away.
⬥ Flush all this mess away!
fog something up† to make something made of glass
become covered with a film of water vapor. ⬥ The
moisture fogged the windshield up, and we had to stop
to clean it off.
fog up [for something made of glass] to become partially
or completely obscured by a film of water vapor.
fog up
81
fold something back† to bend a sheet or flap of something
back. ⬥ She very carefully folded the page back to mark
her place in the book.
fold something over† to double something over on itself;
to make a fold in something. ⬥ I folded the paper over
twice to make something I could fan myself with.
fold something up† 1. Lit. to double something over into
its original folded position. ⬥ Please fold the paper up
when you are finished. 2. Fig. to put an end to something; to close a money-losing enterprise. ⬥ Mr. Jones
was going broke, so he folded his business up.
fold up 1. Lit. [for something] to close by folding. ⬥ The
table just folded up with no warning, trapping my leg.
2. Fig. [for someone] to faint. ⬥ She folded up when she
heard the news. 3. Fig. [for a business] to cease operating. ⬥ Our shop finally folded up because of the recession.
fool around to waste time doing something unnecessary
or doing something amateurishly. ⬥ Stop fooling around
and clean your room as I told you.
force someone or something down† to press or push someone or something downward. ⬥ I forced him down and
slipped the handcuffs on him.
force something down† to force oneself to swallow something. ⬥ I can’t stand sweet potatoes, but I manage to
force them down just to keep from making a scene.
force something through something to press or drive something through something that resists. ⬥ They forced the
bill through the legislature.
fork something over† (to someone) Inf. to give something
to someone. (Usually refers to money.) ⬥ Come on!
Fork the money over to me!
fold something back
82
freeze someone out† 1. Lit. to make it too cold for someone, usually by opening windows or through the use of
air-conditioning. ⬥ Turn up the heat unless you’re trying to freeze us out. 2. Fig. to lock someone out socially;
to isolate someone from something or a group. ⬥ We
didn’t want to freeze you out. You failed to pay your dues,
however.
freshen up to get cleaned up, rested up, or restored. ⬥
I need a few minutes to freshen up before dinner.
froth something up† to whip or aerate something until it
is frothy. ⬥ Froth the milk up before you add it to the
sauce.
froth up [for something] to build up a froth when
whipped, aerated, or boiled. ⬥ The mixture began to
froth up as Dan beat it.
fry something up† to cook something by frying. ⬥ Let’s fry
some chicken up for dinner.
fry something up
83
gasp something out† to utter something, gasping. ⬥ Dan
was just able to gasp out the instructions before he passed
out.
gather something in† 1. Lit. to collect something and bring
it in; to harvest something. ⬥ We gathered the pumpkins in just before Halloween. 2. Fig. to fold or bunch
cloth together when sewing or fitting clothing. ⬥ Try
gathering it in on each side to make it seem smaller.
gather something up† to collect something; to pick something up. ⬥ Let’s gather our things up and go.
gather together to assemble together. ⬥ We will gather
together on the main deck for a meeting.
get along 1. [for people or animals] to be amiable with
one another. ⬥ Those two just don’t get along. ⬥ They
seem to get along just fine. 2. to leave; to be on one’s way.
⬥ I’ve got to get along. It’s getting late.
get away to move away. (Often a command.) ⬥ Get
away! Don’t bother me! ⬥ I tried to get away, but he
wouldn’t let me.
get down 1. Sl. to lay one’s money on the table. (Gambling.) ⬥ Okay, everybody get down. 2. Sl. to concentrate; to do something well. ⬥ I’m flunking two subjects,
man. I gotta get down. ⬥ Come on, Sam, pay attention.
Get down and learn this stuff.
84
G
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
get out 1. [for someone or an animal] to depart to the
outside or to escape. ⬥ When did your dog get out and
run away? 2. [for information or a secret] to become
publicly known. ⬥ We don’t want the secret to get out.
get someone down to depress a person; to make a person
very sad. ⬥ My dog ran away, and it really got me down.
get someone up to wake someone up; to get someone out
of bed. ⬥ I’ve got to get John up, or he will be late for
work.
get something down† to manage to swallow something,
especially something large or unpleasant. ⬥ The pill
was huge, but I got it down. ⬥ I get down all the pills
despite their size.
get something out† 1. Lit. to remove or extricate something. ⬥ Please help me get this splinter out. ⬥ Would
you help me get out this splinter? 2. Fig. to manage to
get something said. ⬥ He tried to say it before he died,
but he couldn’t get it out.
get something up† to organize, plan, and assemble something. ⬥ Let’s get a team up and enter the tournament.
get up to wake up and get out of bed. ⬥ What time do
you usually get up? ⬥ I get up when I have to.
give in cave in; to push in. ⬥ The rotting door gave in
when we pushed, and we went inside.
give out 1. to wear out and stop; to quit operating. ⬥
My old bicycle finally gave out. ⬥ I think that your shoes
are about ready to give out. 2. to be depleted. ⬥ The
paper napkins gave out, and we had to use paper towels.
⬥ The eggs gave out, and we had to eat cereal for breakfast for the rest of the camping trip.
give out
85
give someone or something away† to reveal a secret about
someone or something. ⬥ I thought no one knew where
I was, but my loud breathing gave me away. ⬥ The cherry
juice on his shirt gave him away.
give someone or something up† (for lost) to abandon someone or something as being lost; to quit looking for
someone or something that is lost. ⬥ After a week we
had given the cat up for lost when suddenly she appeared.
give someone or something up† (to someone) to hand someone or something over to someone; to relinquish claims
on someone or something in favor of someone else. ⬥
We had to give the money we found up to the police.
give something off† to release something, such as smoke,
a noise, an odor, fragrance, etc. ⬥ The little animal gave
a foul smell off.
give something out† 1. Lit. to distribute something; to pass
something out. ⬥ The teacher gave the test papers out.
⬥ The teacher gave out the papers. 2. Fig. to make something known to the public. ⬥ When will you give the
announcement out?
give something up† 1. to forsake something; to stop using
or eating something. ⬥ I gave coffee up because of the
caffeine. 2. to quit doing something. ⬥ Oh, give it up!
You’re not getting anywhere.
glass something in† to enclose something, such as a porch,
in glass. ⬥ I want to glass this porch in, so we can use it
in the winter.
glue something down† to fix something down onto something with cement. ⬥ Glue the edge of the rug down
before someone trips over it.
give someone or something away
86
glue something together† to attach the pieces of something together with glue. ⬥ She glued the pieces of the
model plane together.
go along 1. to continue; to progress. ⬥ Things are going
along quite nicely in my new job. ⬥ I hope everything is
going along well. 2. to accompany [someone]. ⬥ Can I
go along?
go through to be approved; to succeed in getting through
the approval process. ⬥ I sent the board of directors a
proposal. I hope it goes through.
go under 1. to sink beneath the surface of the water. ⬥
After capsizing, the ship went under very slowly. ⬥ I was
afraid that our canoe would go under in the rapidly moving water. 2. Fig. [for something] to fail. ⬥ The company went under exactly one year after it opened. ⬥ We
tried to keep it from going under. 3. Fig. to become
unconscious from anesthesia. ⬥ After a few minutes,
she went under and the surgeon began to work.
gobble someone or something up† to eat someone or something completely and rapidly. ⬥ The wolf said that he
was going to gobble the little girl up.
gobble something down† to eat something very fast, swallowing large chunks. ⬥ The dog gobbled the meat down
in seconds.
gobble something up† to use up, buy up, or occupy all of
something. ⬥ The shoppers gobbled all the sale merchandise up in a few hours.
goof around to act silly. ⬥ The kids were all goofing
around, waiting for the bus.
goof off to waste time. ⬥ John is always goofing off. ⬥
Quit goofing off and get to work!
goof off
87
goof someone or something up† Inf. to mess someone or
something up; to ruin someone’s plans; to make something nonfunctional. ⬥ Who goofed this machine up?
grind someone down† Fig. to wear someone down by constant requests; to wear someone down by constant nagging. ⬥ If you think you can grind me down by bothering
me all the time, you are wrong.
grind something away† to remove something by grinding.
⬥ Grind the bumps away and make the wall smooth.
grind something down† to make something smooth or
even by grinding. ⬥ Grind this down to make it smooth.
grind something up† to pulverize or crush something by
crushing, rubbing, or abrasion. ⬥ Please grind the fennel seeds up.
gross someone out† to disgust someone. ⬥ Those horrible pictures just gross me out. ⬥ Jim’s story totally grossed
out Sally.
grow back [for something that has come off] to grow
back again. (Includes parts of plants and some animals,
fingernails, toenails, etc.) ⬥ The lizard’s tail grew back
in a few months.
grow out [for something that has been cut back] to
regrow. ⬥ Don’t worry, your hair will grow out again.
grow over something [for vegetation] to cover over something as it grows. ⬥ The vines grew over the shed and
almost hid it from view.
grow together [for things] to join together as they grow
and develop. ⬥ Two of these trees grew together when
they were much smaller.
goof someone or something up
88
grow up to become mature; to become adult. ⬥ All the
children have grown up and the parents are left with a
lot of debts.
guide something away† (from someone or something) 1. to
lead something away from someone or something. ⬥
I guided the lawn mower away from the children. 2. to
channel or route something away from someone or
something. ⬥ The farmer guided the creek water away
from the main channel through a narrow ditch.
gulp something down† to drink all of something, usually
quickly. ⬥ He gulped his coffee down and left.
gum something up† and gum the works up† Fig. to make
something inoperable; to ruin someone’s plans. ⬥
Please, Bill, be careful and don’t gum up the works.
gun someone or an animal down† Lit. to shoot someone or
an animal. ⬥ Max tried to gun a policeman down.
guzzle something down† to drink something rapidly and
eagerly. ⬥ He guzzled the beer down and called for
another.
guzzle something down
89
hack something down† to chop something down. ⬥ Who
hacked this cherry tree down?
hack something off† to chop something off. ⬥ I need to get
up that tree and hack that big branch off before it bangs
on the house.
hack something up† 1. Lit. to chop something up into
pieces. (Refers often to wood.) ⬥ Hack all this old furniture up, and we’ll burn it in the fireplace. 2. Fig. to
damage or mangle something. ⬥ Who hacked my windowsill up?
ham something up† Fig. to make a performance seem silly
by showing off or exaggerating one’s part. (A show-off
actor is known as a ham.) ⬥ Come on, Bob. Don’t ham
it up!
hammer something down† to pound something down
even with the surrounding surface. ⬥ Hammer all the
nails down so that none of them will catch on someone’s
shoe.
hammer something home† Fig. to try extremely hard to
make someone understand or realize something. ⬥ The
boss hopes to hammer the firm’s poor financial position
home to the staff.
hammer something out† 1. Lit. to hammer a dent away;
to make a dent even with the surrounding surface. ⬥
90
H
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
I’m going to have to have someone hammer this dent in
my fender out. 2. Lit. to expand something by hammering it thinner. ⬥ He hammered the gold out into a
very thin sheet. ⬥ He hammered out the gold into thin
sheets. 3. Fig. to arrive at an agreement through argument and negotiation. ⬥ The two parties could not hammer a contract out. 4. Fig. to play something on the
piano. ⬥ She hammered the song out loudly and without feeling.
hand something back† (to someone) to return something
to someone by hand. ⬥ Would you please hand this
paper back to Scott?
hand something down† from someone to someone to pass
something down through many generations. ⬥ I hope
we can make it a tradition to hand this down from generation to generation.
hand something down† (to someone) 1. Lit. to pass something to a person on a lower level. ⬥ Hand this wrench
hand something down (to someone)
91
hammer something out (sense 3)
down to the man under the sink. 2. Fig. to give something to a younger person. (Either at death or during
life.) ⬥ John handed his old shirts down to his younger
brother. 3. Fig. to announce or deliver a (legal) verdict
or indictment. ⬥ The grand jury handed seven indictments down last week.
hand something in† to submit something by hand. ⬥ Did
you hand your application form in?
hand something off† (to someone) 1. Lit. to give a football
directly to another player. ⬥ Roger handed the ball off
to Jeff. ⬥ He handed off the ball. 2. Fig. to give something to someone else to do or complete. ⬥ I’m going
to hand this assignment off to Jeff.
hand something out† (to someone) 1. to give something
out to someone. ⬥ The judge was known for handing
heavy fines out. 2. to pass something, usually papers,
out to people. ⬥ The teacher handed the tests out to the
students.
hand something over to give something (to someone); to
relinquish something (to someone); to turn something
over (to someone). ⬥ Come on, John! Hand over my
wallet.
hang on 1. to wait awhile. ⬥ Hang on a minute. I need
to talk to you. ⬥ Hang on. Let me catch up with you.
2. to survive for awhile. 3. [for an illness] to linger or
persist. ⬥ This cold has been hanging on for a month.
4. be prepared for fast or rough movement. (Usually a
command.) ⬥ Hang on! The train is going very fast. ⬥
Hang on! We’re going to crash! 5. to pause in a telephone
conversation. ⬥ Please hang on until I get a pen.
hang out (some place) 1. to spend time in a place habitually. ⬥ Is this where you guys hang out all the time?
hand something in
92
2. to spend time aimlessly; to waste time. ⬥ Bill: What
are you doing this afternoon? Tom: Oh, I’ll just hang out.
hang something up† to return the telephone receiver to
its cradle. ⬥ Please hang this up when I pick up the other
phone. ⬥ Please hang up the phone.
hang up 1. [for a machine or a computer] to grind to a
halt; to stop because of some internal complication. ⬥
Our computer hung up right in the middle of printing the
report. ⬥ I was afraid that my computer would hang up
permanently. 2. to replace the telephone receiver after
a call; to terminate a telephone call. ⬥ I said good-bye
and hung up.
harness an animal up† to put a harness on an animal, such
as a horse. ⬥ You had better harness the horses up so we
can go.
haul someone in† Fig. to arrest someone; [for a police officer] to take someone to the police station. ⬥ The cop
hauled the drunk driver in.
head back (some place) to start moving back to some
place. ⬥ I walked to the end of the street and then headed
back home.
head someone or something off† Fig. to intercept and divert
someone or something. ⬥ I think I can head her off
before she reaches the police station. ⬥ I hope we can
head off trouble.
head something up† 1. Lit. to get something pointed in the
right direction. (Especially a herd of cattle or a group
of covered wagons.) ⬥ Head those wagons up—we’re
moving out. 2. Fig. to be in charge of something; to be
the head of some organization. ⬥ I was asked to head
the new committee up for the first year.
head something up
93
heap something up† to make something into a pile. ⬥ He
heaped the mashed potatoes up on my plate, because he
thought I wanted lots.
hear someone out† 1. Lit. to hear all of what someone has
to say. (Fixed order.) ⬥ Please hear me out. I have more
to say. ⬥ Hear out the witness. Don’t jump to conclusions. 2. Fig. to hear someone’s side of the story. (Fixed
order.) ⬥ Let him talk! Hear him out! Listen to his side!
heat something up† (to something) to raise the temperature
of something to a certain level. ⬥ Please heat this room
up to about seventy degrees.
heat up 1. Lit. to get warmer or hot. ⬥ It really heats up
in the afternoon around here. ⬥ How soon will dinner
be heated up? 2. Fig. to grow more animated or combative. ⬥ The debate began to heat up near the end.
hedge someone in† Fig. to restrict someone. (See also
hedge someone or something in.) ⬥ Our decision hedged in
the children so they could not have any flexibility.
hedge someone or something in† to enclose someone or
something in a hedge. ⬥ Their overgrown yard has
almost hedged us in.
help someone along 1. to help someone move along. ⬥
I helped the old man along. ⬥ Please help her along. She
has a hurt leg. 2. to help someone advance. ⬥ I am
more than pleased to help you along with your math.
help (someone) out† to help someone do something; to
help someone with a problem. ⬥ I am trying to raise
this window. Can you help me out?
help someone up† (from something) to help someone rise
up from something; to help someone get up from
something. ⬥ She offered to help him up from the chair.
heap something up
94
hem someone or something in† Fig. to trap or enclose someone or something. ⬥ The large city buildings hem me
in.
hew something down† to fell something wooden, usually
a tree. ⬥ We will have to hew most of this forest down.
hike something up† to raise something, such as prices,
interest rates, a skirt, pants legs, etc. ⬥ The grocery store
is always hiking prices up.
hire someone or something out† to grant someone the use
or efforts of someone or something for pay. ⬥ I hired
my son out as a lawn-care specialist.
hit someone up† (for something) to ask someone for a loan
of money or for some other favor. ⬥ The tramp hit up
each tourist for a dollar.
hit something off† to begin something; to launch an event.
⬥ She hit off the fair with a speech.
hold on to be patient. ⬥ Just hold on. Everything will work
out in good time. ⬥ If you will just hold on, everything
will probably be all right.
hold one’s end up† to carry one’s share of the burden; to
do one’s share of the work. ⬥ You’re not holding your
end up. We’re having to do your share of the work.
hold someone or something off† and keep someone or something off† 1. Lit. to do something physical to keep someone or something away; to stave someone or something
off. ⬥ Tom was trying to rob us, but we managed to hold
him off. ⬥ I couldn’t keep off the reporters any longer.
2. Fig. to make someone or something wait. ⬥ I know
a lot of people are waiting to see me. Hold them off for
a while longer.
hold someone or something off
95
hold someone or something over† to retain someone or
something (for a period of time). ⬥ The storm held
John over for another day.
hold someone or something up† 1. Lit. to keep someone or
something upright. ⬥ Johnny is falling asleep. Please
hold him up until I prepare the bed for him. 2. Fig. to
rob someone or a group. ⬥ Some punk tried to hold me
up. ⬥ The mild-looking man held up the bank and shot
a teller. 3. Fig. to delay someone or something. ⬥ Driving the kids to school held me up.
hold something out† (to someone) to offer something to
someone. ⬥ I held a bouquet of roses out to her.
hold up 1. Lit. to endure; to last a long time. ⬥ How long
will this cloth hold up? ⬥ I want my money back for this
chair. It isn’t holding up well. 2. and hold up (for someone or something) to wait; to stop and wait for someone
or something. ⬥ Hold up for Wallace. He’s running hard
to catch up to us.
hollow something out† to make the inside of something
hollow. ⬥ Martha hollowed the book out and put her
money inside.
hook something down† 1. Lit. to attach something and
hold it down with a hook. ⬥ Please hook the lid down
so it doesn’t fall off. ⬥ Please hook down the lid. 2. Sl.
to toss something down to someone. ⬥ Hook another
can of beer down to me, will you? 3. Sl. to eat something quickly; to gobble something up. ⬥ Wally hooked
the first hamburger down and ordered another.
hook something up† to set something up and get it working. (The object is to be connected to a power supply,
electronic network, telephone lines, etc.) ⬥ Will it take
long to hook the telephone up?
hold someone or something over
96
hop in(to something) to jump into something; to get into
something. ⬥ Hop into your car and drive over to my
house. ⬥ I hopped in and drove off.
hose someone or something down† to wash something down
with water from a hose. ⬥ Hose her down to cool her
off and maybe she will do the same for you. ⬥ Please
hose down the driveway.
hound someone or an animal down† to pursue and capture
someone or an animal. ⬥ I will hound the killer down
if it takes me the rest of my life.
hunch something up† to raise up or lift up some body part,
usually the shoulders. ⬥ He hunched his shoulders up in
his effort to get warm.
hunch up to squeeze or pull the parts of one’s body
together. ⬥ Why is that child hunched up in the corner?
hunker down (on something) Fig. to squat down on one’s
heels, a stool, a stone, etc. ⬥ Jeff hunkered down on the
pavement and watched the world go by.
hunt someone or something down† 1. to chase and catch
someone or something. ⬥ I don’t know where Amy is,
but I’ll hunt her down. I’ll find her. ⬥ I will hunt down
the villain. 2. to locate someone or something. ⬥ I don’t
have a big enough gasket. I’ll have to hunt one down.
hunt someone or something out† to find someone or something even if concealed. ⬥ We will hunt them all out and
find every last one of those guys. ⬥ We will hunt out all
of them.
hurl someone or something down† to throw or push someone or something downward to the ground. ⬥ Roger
hurled the football down and it bounced away wildly. ⬥
He hurled down the football in anger.
hurl someone or something down
97
hurl something around† to throw something, such as
words, around carelessly. ⬥ Don’t just go hurling foul
words around like they didn’t mean anything. ⬥ You are
just hurling around words!
hurry someone or something up to make someone or something go or work faster. ⬥ Please hurry them all up. We
are expecting to have dinner very soon.
hush someone up† 1. to make someone quiet. ⬥ Please
hush the children up. I have a telephone call. 2. Sl. to kill
someone. ⬥ The gang was afraid the witness would testify and wanted to hush him up. ⬥ Mr. Big told Sam to
hush up Richard.
hush something up† Fig. to keep something a secret; to try
to stop a rumor from spreading. ⬥ We wanted to hush
up the story, but there was no way to do it.
hush up to be quiet; to get quiet; to stop talking. ⬥ You
talk too much. Hush up!
hurl something around
98
ice something down† to cool something with ice. ⬥ They
are icing the champagne down now.
ice something up† to cause something to become icy. ⬥
I hope the cold doesn’t ice the roads up.
idle something away† Fig. to waste one’s time in idleness;
to waste a period of time, such as an afternoon, evening, one’s life. ⬥ She idled the afternoon away and then
went to a party.
inch along (something) to move slowly along something
little by little. ⬥ The cat inched along the carpet toward
the mouse.
ink something in† 1. to fill in an outline with ink. ⬥ Please
ink the drawing in with care. 2. to write something in
ink. ⬥ Please ink your name in on the dotted line.
intrude (up)on someone or something to encroach on someone or something or matters that concern only someone or something. (Upon is formal and less commonly
used than on.) ⬥ I didn’t mean to intrude upon you. ⬥
Please don’t intrude on our meeting. Please wait outside.
inundate someone or something with something 1. Lit. to
flood someone or something with fluid. ⬥ The river
inundated the fields with three feet of water. ⬥ The storm
inundated us with heavy rain. 2. Fig. to overwhelm
someone with someone or something. ⬥ They inun99
I
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
dated us with mail. ⬥ The children inundated us with
requests for their favorite songs. ⬥ The citizens inundated
the legislature with demands for jobs.
invite someone out† to ask someone out on a date. ⬥
I would love to invite you out sometime. If I did, would
you go?
invite someone over† (for something) to bid or request
someone to come to one’s house for something, such
as a meal, party, chat, cards, etc. ⬥ Let’s invite Tony and
Nick over for dinner.
iron something out† 1. Lit. to use a flatiron to make cloth
flat or smooth. ⬥ I will iron the drapes out, so they will
hang together. 2. Fig. to ease a problem; to smooth out
a problem. (Here problem is synonymous with wrinkle.) ⬥ It’s only a little problem. I can iron it out very
quickly.
isolate someone or something from someone or something to
keep people or things separated from one another, in
any combination. ⬥ They isolated everyone from Sam,
who was ill with malaria. ⬥ We isolated the children
from the source of the disease.
itch for something Fig. to desire something. ⬥ I’m just itching for a visit from Amy. ⬥ We are itching for some chocolate.
itch for something
100
jack something up† 1. Lit. to raise something up on a
mechanical lifting device. ⬥ Now I have to jack the car
up, so I can change the tire. ⬥ Please jack up the car.
2. Fig. to raise the price of something. ⬥ The store keeps
jacking prices up. ⬥ The grocery store jacked up the prices
again last night.
jam something up† 1. to clog up something; to impede or
block the movement of or through something. ⬥
Rachel jammed traffic up when her car stalled. 2. Fig.
to force something upwards in haste or anger. ⬥ Who
jammed the window up?
jaw someone down† Sl. to talk someone down; to wear
someone down talking. ⬥ We’ll try to jaw him down. If
that doesn’t work, I don’t know what we will do.
jerk something up† 1. to pull something up quickly. ⬥ He
jerked his belt up tight. 2. to lift up something, such as
ears, quickly. ⬥ The dog jerked its ears up. ⬥ The dog
jerked up its ears when it heard the floor creak.
jostle someone around† to push or knock someone
around. ⬥ Please don’t jostle me around.
jostle someone aside† to push or nudge someone aside.
⬥ Poor little Timmy was jostled aside by the crowd every
time he got near the entrance.
101
J
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
jot something down† to make a note of something. ⬥ This
is important. Please jot this down.
jumble something up† to make a hodgepodge out of things.
⬥ Who jumbled my papers up?
jot something down
102
keep off ((of) something) to remain off something; to
stay off of something. (Of is usually retained before
pronouns.) ⬥ Please keep off the grass. ⬥ This is not a
public thoroughfare! Keep off!
keep on (doing something) to continue to do something. ⬥
Are you going to keep on singing all night?
keep one’s end up† 1. Lit. to hold one’s end of a load so
that the load is level. ⬥ Be sure to keep your end up while
we go up the stairs. 2. Fig. to carry through on one’s part
of a bargain. ⬥ You have to keep your end up like the
rest of us.
keep out (of something) 1. Lit. to remain outside something or some place. ⬥ You should keep out of the
darkroom when the door is closed. 2. Fig. to remain
uninvolved with something. ⬥ Keep out of this! It’s my
affair.
keep someone down to prevent someone from advancing or succeeding. ⬥ I don’t think that this problem will
keep her down.
keep someone on Fig. to retain someone in employment
longer than is required or was planned. ⬥ She worked
out so well that we decided to keep her on.
103
K
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
keep someone or something back† to hold someone or something in reserve. ⬥ We are keeping Karen back until the
other players have exhausted themselves.
keep someone or something down to hold someone or
something in a hidden or protected position. ⬥ Please
keep the noise down so Fred won’t know it’s a party when
he comes in.
keep someone up 1. Lit. to hold someone upright. ⬥ Try
to keep him up until I can get his bed made. 2. Fig. to
prevent someone from going to bed or going to sleep.
⬥ I’m sorry, was my trumpet keeping you up?
keep something down 1. Lit. to make the level of noise
lower and keep it lower. ⬥ Please keep it down. You are
just too noisy. 2. Fig. to retain food in one’s stomach
rather than throwing it up. ⬥ I’ve got the flu and I can’t
keep any food down. 3. Fig. to keep spending under control. ⬥ I work hard to keep expenses down.
keep something up† 1. Lit. to hold or prop something up.
⬥ Keep your side of the trunk up. Don’t let it sag. 2. Fig.
to continue doing something. ⬥ I love your singing.
Don’t stop. Keep it up. 3. Fig. to maintain something in
good order. ⬥ I’m glad you keep the exterior of your
house up.
kick back 1. Inf. to relax; to lean back and relax. ⬥
I really like to kick back and relax. 2. Inf. [for an addict]
to return to an addiction or a habit, after having
“kicked the habit.” ⬥ Lefty kicked back after only a few
days of being clean.
kick one’s heels up† Fig. to act frisky; to be lively and
have fun. (Somewhat literal when said of hoofed animals.) ⬥ I like to go to an old-fashioned square dance
and really kick up my heels.
keep someone or something back
104
kick someone or something aside† 1. Lit. to get someone or
something out of the way by kicking. ⬥ The bully kicked
Timmy aside and grabbed our cake. 2. Fig. to get rid of
someone or something. ⬥ He simply kicked aside his
wife and took up with some young chick.
kick someone or something away† to force someone or something away by kicking. ⬥ Fred kicked the intruder away
from the gun he had dropped on the floor. ⬥ Then he
kicked away the gun. ⬥ The kickboxer kicked the mugger away.
kick something around† 1. Lit. to move something around
by kicking it, as in play. ⬥ Kick the ball around a while
and then try to make a goal. 2. Fig. to discuss something; to chat about an idea. ⬥ We got together and
kicked her idea around.
kick something down† to break down something by kicking. ⬥ I was afraid they were going to kick the door down.
kick something down
105
kick something around (sense 2)
kick something in† to break through something by kicking. ⬥ Tommy kicked the door in and broke the new
lamp. ⬥ He kicked in the door by accident.
kick something off† Fig. to begin something; to hold a
party or ceremony to mark the start of something.
(Alludes to starting a football game by kicking off the
ball for the first play.) ⬥ The city kicked the centennial
celebration off with a parade.
kick up to cause trouble or discomfort. ⬥ The ignition
in my car is kicking up again. I will have to have it looked
into. ⬥ Aunt Jane’s arthritis is kicking up. She needs to
see the doctor again.
kill someone or an animal off† to kill all of a group of people or creatures. ⬥ Lefty set out to kill Max and his boys
off.
kink up [for something] to develop kinks or tangles. ⬥
The leather parts tend to shrink and kink up in the damp
weather.
kiss someone or something off† Fig. to dismiss someone or
something lightly; to abandon or write off someone or
something. ⬥ I kissed off about $200 on that last deal.
knit something together† to join things together by knitting. ⬥ Terry knitted the parts of the sweater together.
knock someone or something down† to thrust someone or
something to the ground by hitting. ⬥ The force of the
blast knocked us down.
knock someone or something over† to push or strike someone or something, causing the person or the thing to
fall. ⬥ I am sorry. I didn’t mean to knock you over. Are
you hurt? ⬥ Who knocked over this vase?
kick something in
106
knock someone out† 1. Lit. to knock someone unconscious. (Someone includes oneself.) ⬥ Fred knocked Mike
out and left him there in the gutter. 2. Fig. to make
someone unconsciousness. ⬥ The drug knocked her out
quickly. ⬥ The powerful medicine knocked out the
patient. 3. Fig. to surprise or please someone. ⬥ I have
some news that will really knock you out. 4. Fig. to wear
someone out; to exhaust someone. ⬥ All that exercise
really knocked me out.
knock someone up† Inf. to make a woman pregnant. ⬥
They say it was Willie who knocked her up.
knock something back† Sl. to drink down a drink of something, especially something alcoholic. ⬥ I don’t see how
he can knock that stuff back. ⬥ John knocked back two
beers in ten minutes.
knock something off† 1. to manufacture or make something, especially in haste. ⬥ I’ll see if I can knock another
one off before lunch. ⬥ They knocked off four window
frames in an hour. 2. to knock off some amount from
the price of something, lowering its price. ⬥ The store
manager knocked 30 percent off the price of the coat. ⬥
Can’t you knock something off on this damaged item?
3. to copy or reproduce a product. ⬥ The manufacturer knocked off a famous designer’s coat. ⬥ They are
well-known for knocking off cheap versions of expensive
watches.
knock something out† 1. to create something hastily. ⬥ He
knocked a few out as samples. ⬥ He knocked out a few
of them quickly, just so we could see what they were going
to look like. 2. Fig. to put something out of order; to
make something inoperable. ⬥ The storm knocked the
telephone system out.
knock something out
107
knock something over† to tip something over. ⬥ Someone
knocked the chair over.
knock something together† to assemble something hastily.
⬥ I knocked this model together so you could get a general idea of what I had in mind. ⬥ See if you can knock
together a quick snack.
knot something together† to tie something together in a
knot. ⬥ Knot these strings together and trim the strings
off the knot. ⬥ Are the ropes knotted together properly?
knock something over
108
lace someone up† to tie someone’s laces; to help someone
get dressed in a garment having laces. ⬥ Would you
please lace me up? I can’t reach the ties in the back.
lace something up† to tie the laces of something. ⬥ Lace
your shoes up, Tommy.
ladle something up† to scoop something up in a ladle. ⬥
Jerry ladled a cool dipper of water up and quenched his
thirst.
lap something up† 1. Lit. [for an animal] to lick something
up. ⬥ The dog lapped the ice cream up off the floor.
2. Fig. [for someone] to accept or believe something
with enthusiasm. ⬥ Of course, they believed it. They just
lapped it up.
lash someone or something down† to tie someone or something down. ⬥ The villain lashed Nell down to the railroad tracks. ⬥ He lashed down the innocent victim.
lash something about to whip or fling something about
violently. ⬥ The big cat lashed its tail threateningly.
last out to hold out; to endure. ⬥ How long can you last
out? ⬥ I don’t think we can last out much longer without food and water.
last something out† to endure until the end of something.
⬥ Ed said that he didn’t think he could last the opera out
and left.
109
L
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
lather up 1. [for a horse] to develop a foam of sweat
from working very hard. ⬥ The horses lathered up heavily during the race. 2. [for soap] to develop thick suds
when rubbed in water. ⬥ This soap won’t lather up, even
when I rub it hard. 3. and lather oneself up [for one]
to apply soap lather to one’s body. ⬥ He will spend a
few minutes lathering himself up before he rinses. ⬥ He
lathered up and then shaved.
laugh something away† 1. to spend an amount of time
laughing. ⬥ We laughed the hour away listening to the
comedian. 2. to get rid of something negative by laughing. ⬥ Kelly knows how to laugh her problems away, and
it cheers up the rest of us too.
laugh something off† to treat a serious problem lightly by
laughing at it. ⬥ Although his feelings were hurt, he just
laughed the incident off as if nothing had happened.
lay someone away† Euph. to bury someone. ⬥ Yes, he has
passed. We laid him away last week.
lay someone out† 1. Sl. to knock someone down with a
punch; to knock someone unconscious. ⬥ Tom laid out
Bill with one punch to the chin. 2. to prepare a corpse
for burial or for a wake. ⬥ They laid out their uncle for
the wake. 3. Sl. to scold someone severely. ⬥ Don’t lay
me out! I didn’t do it! ⬥ She really laid out the guy but
good. What did he do, rob a bank?
lay someone up† to cause someone to be ill in bed. ⬥
A broken leg laid me up for two months.
lay something aside† to set something aside; to place something to one side, out of the way. ⬥ He laid his papers
aside and went out to welcome the visitor.
lay something in† to get something and store it for future
use. ⬥ They laid a lot of food in for the holidays.
lather up
110
lay something out† 1. Lit. to spread something out. ⬥ The
nurse laid the instruments out for the operation. 2. Fig.
to explain a plan of action or a sequence of events. ⬥
Let me lay it out for you. ⬥ Lay out the plan very carefully, and don’t skip anything. 3. Fig. to spend some
amount of money. ⬥ I can’t lay that kind of money out
every day!
lay something up† 1. to acquire and store something. ⬥ Try
to lay as much of it up as you can. ⬥ I am trying to lay
up some firewood for the winter. 2. [for something] to
disable something. ⬥ The accident laid up the ship for
repairs.
lead off to be the first one to go or leave. ⬥ You lead off.
I’ll follow. ⬥ Mary led off and the others followed closely
behind.
lead someone on 1. to guide someone onward. ⬥ We led
him on so he could see more of the gardens. 2. and lead
someone on† to tease someone; to encourage someone’s
romantic or sexual interest without sincerity. ⬥ You are
just leading me on! ⬥ It’s not fair to continue leading
him on.
lead on to continue to lead onward. ⬥ The guide led on
and we followed. ⬥ Lead on, my friend. We are right
behind you!
lead someone or something off† to guide someone or something away. ⬥ The guide led the hikers off on the adventure of their lives.
leak out [for information] to become known unofficially. ⬥ I hope that news of the new building does not
leak out before the contract is signed.
lean over 1. to bend over. ⬥ Lean over and pick the pencil up yourself! I’m not your servant! ⬥ As Kelly leaned
lean over
111
over to tie her shoes, her chair slipped out from under
her. 2. to tilt over. ⬥ The fence leaned over and almost
fell.
leave something aside† 1. to leave something in reserve.
⬥ Leave some of the sugar aside for use in the icing. 2. to
ignore something, especially a fact. ⬥ Let’s leave the
question of who will pay for it aside for a while. ⬥ We
will leave aside the current situation and talk about the
future.
leave something on† 1. to continue to wear some article
of clothing. ⬥ I think I will leave my coat on. It’s chilly
in here. 2. to allow something [that can be turned off]
to remain on. ⬥ Who left the radio on?
lend something out† (to someone) to allow someone to borrow something. ⬥ I lent my tuxedo out to a friend who
was going to a dance, and now I haven’t anything to wear
to the opera. ⬥ I lent out my copy of the book.
let someone down to disappoint someone; to fail someone. ⬥ I’m sorry I let you down. Something came up,
and I couldn’t meet you.
let someone off† to permit someone to disembark or leave
a means of transportation. ⬥ The driver let Mary off the
bus. ⬥ “I can’t let you off at this corner,” said the driver.
let something out† 1. Fig. to reveal something; to tell about
a secret or a plan. ⬥ It was supposed to be a secret. Who
let it out? ⬥ Who let out the secret? 2. Fig. to enlarge an
article of clothing. ⬥ She had to let her overcoat out
because she had gained some weight.
level off [for variation or fluctuation in the motion of
something] to diminish; [for a rate] to stop increasing
or decreasing. ⬥ The plane leveled off at 10,000 feet. ⬥
After a while the workload will level off.
leave something aside
112
level out [for something that was going up and down]
to assume a more level course or path. ⬥ The road leveled out after a while and driving was easier.
level something down to make something level or smooth.
⬥ The soil is very uneven in this part of the garden.
Would you please level it down? ⬥ The huge earthmoving machines leveled the hill down in preparation for
the building of the highway.
level something off† to make something level or smooth.
⬥ You are going to have to level the floor off before you
put the carpet down.
level something out† to cause something to assume a more
level course or path. ⬥ Level this path out before you
open it to the public.
level something up† to move something into a level or
plumb position. ⬥ Use a piece of wood under the table’s
leg to level it up.
lift someone or something up† to raise someone or something. ⬥ I helped lift him up and put him on the
stretcher.
lift something off (of) someone or something and lift something off† to raise something and uncover or release
someone or something. (Of is usually retained before
pronouns.) ⬥ Lift the beam off of him and see if he is
still breathing.
lift up to raise up. ⬥ Suddenly, the top of the box lifted up
and a hand reached out. ⬥ Bill’s hand lifted up and fell
back again.
light something up† 1. to light a fire, a gas burner, etc. ⬥
I lit the kindling up and soon the fire was going. 2. to
light something to smoke, such as a cigarette, pipe, etc.
light something up
113
⬥ She lit the cigarette up and took in a great breath of
the smoke.
light up 1. to become brighter. ⬥ Suddenly, the sky lit up
like day. ⬥ The room lit up as the fire suddenly came
back to life. 2. [for someone] to become interested and
responsive in something. ⬥ We could tell from the way
Sally lit up that she recognized the man in the picture.
lighten something up† to make something lighter or
brighter. ⬥ Some white paint will lighten this room up
a lot.
limber someone or something up† to make someone or
something more flexible or loose. ⬥ Let me give you a
massage; that will limber you up.
line someone or something up† 1. Lit. to put people or things
in line. ⬥ Line everyone up and march them onstage. ⬥
Line up the kids, please. ⬥ Please line these books up.
2. Fig. to schedule someone or something [for something]. ⬥ Please line somebody up for the entertainment.
⬥ We will try to line up a magician and a clown for the
party.
linger on to remain for a long time; to exist longer than
would have been thought. ⬥ This cold of mine just keeps
lingering on.
liquor someone up† to get someone tipsy or drunk. ⬥ He
liquored her up and tried to take her home with him.
liquor up to drink an alcoholic beverage, especially to
excess. ⬥ Sam sat around all evening liquoring up.
litter something up† to mess something up with litter,
trash, possessions, etc. ⬥ Who littered this room up?
live something down† to overcome the shame or embarrassment of something. ⬥ You’ll live it down someday.
light up
114
live something out† to act out something such as one’s fantasies. ⬥ She tried to live her dreams out.
live something over to go back and live a part of one’s life
again in order to do things differently. ⬥ I wish I could
go back and live those days over again. Boy, would I do
things differently!
live together 1. [for two people] to dwell in the same
place. ⬥ I live together with my sister in the house my
parents left us. 2. [for two people] to dwell together in
a romantic relationship. ⬥ I heard that Sally and Sam
are living together.
liven something up† to make something more lively or less
dull. ⬥ Some singing might liven things up a bit.
loaf around to waste time; to idle the time away doing
almost nothing. ⬥ Every time I see you, you are just loafing around.
lock someone or something up† (somewhere) to lock someone
or something within something or some place. ⬥ The
captain ordered the sailor locked up in the brig until the
ship got into port. ⬥ Don’t lock me up!
lock something in† to make something, such as a rate of
interest, permanent over a period of time. ⬥ You should
try to lock in a high percentage rate on your bonds.
log off and log out to record one’s exit from a computer
system. (This action may be recorded, or logged, automatically in the computer’s memory.) ⬥ I closed my
files and logged off.
log on to begin to use a computer system, as by entering
a password, etc. (This action may be recorded, or
logged, automatically in the computer’s memory.) ⬥
What time did you log on to the system this morning?
log on
115
loll around to roll, flop, or hang around. ⬥ The dog’s
tongue lolled around as it rolled on its back, trying to
keep cool.
look on to be a spectator and watch what is happening
without participating. ⬥ The beating took place while a
policeman looked on.
loom up to appear to rise up [from somewhere]; to take
form or definition, usually threatening to some degree.
⬥ A great city loomed up in the distance. It looked threatening in the dusky light. ⬥ A ghost loomed up, but we
paid no attention, since it had to be a joke.
loosen up to become loose or relaxed. ⬥ We tried to get
Mary to loosen up, but she did not respond.
loosen someone up† Fig. to make someone or a group
more relaxed and friendly. ⬥ I loosened up the audience
with a joke.
lope along to move along, bounding. ⬥ The dog loped
along at an even pace, answering to his master’s whistle.
luck out to be fortunate; to strike it lucky. ⬥ I didn’t luck
out at all. I rarely make the right choice.
lumber along to lope or walk along heavily and awkwardly. ⬥ The horses were lumbering along very slowly
because they were tired out.
lumber off to move or lope away heavily and awkwardly.
⬥ The frightened bear lumbered off, and we left in a
hurry.
lurch forward to jerk or sway forward. ⬥ When the train
lurched forward, we were pushed back into our seats.
lurk around to slink or sneak around somewhere. ⬥ Who
is that guy lurking around the building?
loll around
116
make one’s mind up† (about someone or something) to
decide about someone or something. ⬥ Please make
your mind up about Ralph. Will you pick him or not? ⬥
Make up your mind about her!
make someone’s mind up† to decide; to do something
that decides something for someone. ⬥ Will you please
make up your mind?
make someone up† to put makeup on someone. ⬥ You
have to make the clowns up before you start on the other
characters in the play.
make something out† to see, read, or hear something well
enough to understand it. ⬥ What did you say? I couldn’t
quite make it out.
make something up† 1. to redo something; to do something that one has failed to do in the past. ⬥ Can I
make the lost time up? ⬥ Can I make up the test that I
missed? 2. to assemble something. ⬥ We will ship the
parts to China where we will make up the computers with
cheap labor. ⬥ Have they finished making up the pages
for the next edition of the magazine? 3. to think up
something; to make and tell a lie. ⬥ That’s not true! You
just made that up! ⬥ I didn’t make it up! 4. to mix something up; to assemble something. ⬥ John: Is my prescription ready? Druggist: No, I haven’t made it up yet.
117
M
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
make something up† from something to create something
from something. ⬥ I will make some stew up from the
ingredients available in the fridge.
map something out† to plot something out carefully, usually on paper. ⬥ I have a good plan. I will map it out for
you.
mar something up† to dent or scratch something; to harm
the smooth finish of something. ⬥ Please don’t mar the
furniture up.
mark someone down† [for a teacher] to give someone a
low score. ⬥ He’ll mark you down for misspelled words.
⬥ I marked down Tom for bad spelling.
mark someone or something off† and mark someone or something out† to cross off the name of someone or something. ⬥ They were late, so I marked them off. ⬥
I marked off the late people.
mark something down† 1. Lit. to write something down
on paper. ⬥ She marked the number down on the paper.
make something up from something
118
map something out
2. Fig. to reduce the price of something. ⬥ We are going
to mark all this merchandise down next Monday.
mark something up† 1. to mess something up with marks.
⬥ Don’t mark up your book! ⬥ Who marked this book
up? 2. to grade a paper and make lots of informative
marks and comments on it. ⬥ The teacher really marked
up my term paper. 3. to raise the price of something.
⬥ The grocery store seems to mark the price of food up
every week.
marry someone off† (to someone) to manage to get someone married to someone and out of the house or family. ⬥ Her parents wanted nothing more than to marry
her off to a doctor.
mash something up† to crush something into a paste or
pieces. ⬥ Mash the potatoes up and put them in a bowl.
mask something out† to conceal or cover part of something from view. ⬥ The trees masked the city dump out,
so it could not be seen from the street.
match up [for things or people] to match, be equal, or
complementary. ⬥ These match up. See how they are
the same length?
max out to reach one’s maximum in something, such as
weight in weight lifting or credit on a credit card. ⬥
Andy finally maxed out at 300 pounds.
measure something off† to determine the length of something. ⬥ He measured the length of the room off and
wrote down the figure in his notebook. ⬥ Fred measured
off the width of the house.
measure something out† to measure and distribute something as it is being taken out, unwrapped, unfolded, etc.
⬥ Carl measured the grain out a cup at a time.
measure something out
119
mellow out 1. to become less angry. ⬥ When you mellow out, maybe we can talk. ⬥ Come on, man, stop
yelling and mellow out! 2. to become generally more
relaxed. ⬥ Gary was nearly forty before he started to
mellow out a little and take life less seriously.
melt away to melt into a liquid. ⬥ When the wax candles melted away, they ruined the lace tablecloth.
melt down 1. Lit. [for something frozen] to melt. ⬥ The
glacier melted down little by little. ⬥ When the ice on the
streets melted down, it was safe to drive again. 2. Fig. [for
a nuclear reactor] to become hot enough to melt
through its container.
melt something away† to cause something to melt into a
liquid. ⬥ The sun melted the ice away.
melt something down† to cause something frozen to melt;
to cause something solid to melt. ⬥ The rays of the sun
melted the candle down to a puddle of wax.
mess around and mess about 1. to waste time; to do
something ineffectually. ⬥ Stop messing around and get
busy. ⬥ I wish you wouldn’t mess about so much. You
waste a lot of time that way. 2. to play [with someone]
sexually. ⬥ Pete was messing around with Maria during
the summer.
mess up to make an error; to do something wrong; to
flub up. ⬥ I hope I don’t mess up on the quiz.
mess something up† to make something disorderly; to create disorder in something; to throw someone’s plans
awry. ⬥ You really messed this place up!
mete something out† to measure something out. ⬥ She
meted the solution out carefully into a row of test tubes.
mellow out
120
mix in (with someone or something) to mix or combine with
people or substances. ⬥ The band came down from the
stage and mixed in with the guests during the break.
mix someone up† to confuse someone. ⬥ Please don’t ask
questions now; you’ll mix me up!
mix something up† to bring something into disorder; to
throw something into a state of confusion. ⬥ Don’t mix
up the papers on my desk.
mock something up† to make a model or simulation of
something. ⬥ The engineers mocked the new car design
up for the managers to see.
mop something down† to clean a surface with a mop. ⬥
Please mop this floor down now.
mop something off† to wipe the liquid off something. ⬥
Please mop the counter off with paper towels.
mop something up† to clean up something, such as a spill,
with a mop or with a mopping motion. ⬥ Please mop
this mess up.
motion someone aside† to give a hand signal to someone
to move aside. ⬥ He motioned her aside and had a word
with her. ⬥ I motioned aside the guard and asked him a
question.
mound something up† to form something into a mound.
⬥ Please mound up the leaves around the rosebushes.
mount up 1. to get up on a horse. ⬥ Mount up and let’s
get out of here! 2. [for something] to increase in amount
or extent. ⬥ Expenses really mount up when you travel.
mouth off to speak out of turn; to backtalk. ⬥ If you
mouth off, I will ground you for three weeks.
mouth off
121
move along to continue to move; to start moving out of
the way. (Often a command.) ⬥ The crowd moved along
slowly.
move on to continue moving; to travel on; to move along
and not stop or tarry. ⬥ Move on! Don’t stop here!
move out (of some place) 1. to leave a place; to leave; to
begin to depart. (Especially in reference to a large number of persons or things.) ⬥ The crowd started to move
out of the area about midnight. 2. to leave a place of residence permanently. ⬥ We didn’t like the neighborhood,
so we moved out of it.
move over to move a bit [away from the speaker]. ⬥
Move over. I need some space. ⬥ Please move over. Part
of this space is mine.
move someone or something forward to cause someone or
something to advance. ⬥ Move her forward. She is too
far back.
move someone up† to advance or promote someone. ⬥ We
are ready to move you up. You have been doing quite well.
move up to advance; to go higher. ⬥ Isn’t it about time
that I move up? I’ve been an office clerk for over a year.
muddle something up† to mix something up; to make
something confusing. ⬥ You really muddled the language of this contract up.
mull something over† to think about something; to ponder or worry about something. ⬥ That’s an interesting
idea, but I’ll have to mull it over.
muss someone or something up† to put someone or something into disarray. ⬥ Don’t muss me up! ⬥ You mussed
up my hair.
move along
122
nail someone down† (on something) Go to pin someone
down† (on something).
nail something down† to secure something down by nailing it. ⬥ Please nail the floorboard down or someone will
trip over it. ⬥ I’ll nail down these floorboards.
nail something up† 1. to put something up, as on a wall,
by nailing. ⬥ Please nail this up. ⬥ I’ll nail up this picture for you. 2. to nail something closed; to use nails to
secure something from intruders. ⬥ Sam nailed the
door up so no one could use it.
nick something up† to make little dents or nicks in something, ruining the finish. ⬥ Someone nicked the kitchen
counter up.
nudge someone or something aside† to push or bump someone or something out of the way. ⬥ We nudged the old
man aside and went on ahead.
nurse someone or an animal along† to aid or encourage the
well-being or return to health of someone or an animal. ⬥ She nursed the old man along for a few years
until he died. ⬥ She nursed along the invalid.
123
N
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
offer something up† (to someone or something) to give something to someone or something as a mark of devotion,
thanks, etc. ⬥ We offered up our gratitude to the queen.
open someone up† Fig. to perform a surgical operation
requiring a major incision on someone. ⬥ The doctor
had to open George up to find out what was wrong.
open something out† to unfold or expand something; to
open and spread something out. ⬥ When she opened the
fan out, she saw it was made of plastic.
open something up† 1. Lit. to unwrap something; to open
something. ⬥ Yes, I want to open my presents up. ⬥
I can’t wait to open up my presents. 2. Fig. to begin
examining or discussing something. ⬥ Do you really
want to open it up now? ⬥ Now is the time to open up
the question of taxes. 3. Fig. to reveal the possibilities
of something; to reveal an opportunity. ⬥ Your letter
opened new possibilities up. 4. Fig. to start the use of
something, such as land, a building, a business, etc. ⬥
They opened the coastal lands up to resort development.
⬥ We opened up a new store last March. 5. Fig. to make
a vehicle go as fast as possible. (As in opening up the
throttle.) ⬥ We took the new car out on the highway and
opened it up. 6. to make something less congested.
⬥ They opened the yard up by cutting out a lot of old
shrubbery.
124
O
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
open up 1. Lit. open your door; open your mouth.
(Usually Open up!) ⬥ I want in. Open up! ⬥ Open up!
This is the police. 2. Fig. to become available. ⬥ A new
job is opening up at my office. 3. Fig. to go as fast as possible. (As in opening up the throttle.) ⬥ I can’t get this
car to open up. Must be something wrong with the engine.
4. to become clear, uncluttered, or open. ⬥ The sky
opened up, and the sun shone.
order something in† to have something, usually food,
brought into one’s house or place of business. ⬥ Do you
want to order pizza in?
order something in
125
pace around and pace about to walk around nervously or anxiously. ⬥ Stop pacing around and sit down.
⬥ There is no need to pace about.
pace something off† to mark off a distance by counting the
number of even strides taken while walking. ⬥ The
farmer paced a few yards off and pounded a stake into
the soil.
pace something out† 1. Lit. to measure a distance by
counting the number of even strides taken while walking. ⬥ He paced the distance out and wrote it down.
2. Fig. to deal with a problem by pacing around. ⬥
When she was upset, she walked and walked while she
thought through her problem. When Ed came into the
room, she was pacing a new crisis out.
pack down [for something] to settle down in a container. ⬥ The cereal has packed down in the box so that
it seems that the box is only half full.
pack someone off† (to someone or something) to send someone away to someone or some place. ⬥ Laura just
packed all the kids off to summer camp. ⬥ She packed
off the kids to their camp.
pack someone or something together† to press or squeeze
people or things together. ⬥ The ushers packed the people together as much as they dared. ⬥ They packed
together all the people standing in the room.
126
P
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
pack something away† to pack something up and put it
away. ⬥ Pack this mirror away where it will be safe.
pack something down† to make something more compact;
to press something in a container down so it takes less
space. ⬥ The traffic packed down the snow.
pack up to prepare one’s belongings to be transported by
placing them into a container; to gather one’s things
together for one’s departure. ⬥ If we are going to leave
in the morning, we should pack up now. ⬥ I think you
should pack up and be ready to leave at a moment’s
notice.
pad something out† Fig. to make something appear to be
larger or longer by adding unnecessary material. ⬥ If
we pad the costume out here, it will make the person who
wears it look much plumper.
paint something out† to cover something up or obliterate
something by applying a layer of paint. ⬥ The worker
painted the graffiti out.
pair off [for two people or other creatures] to form a
couple or pair. ⬥ Everyone should pair off and discuss
the issue for a while.
pant something out† to tell something while panting for
breath. ⬥ Laura had been running but she was able to
pant the name of the injured person out.
parcel something up† to wrap something up in a package.
⬥ Parcel up the files and place them on top of the file cabinet.
pare something down† (to something) to cut someone down
to something or a smaller size. ⬥ I will have to pare the
budget down to the minimum. ⬥ I hope we can pare
down the budget.
pare something down (to something)
127
pass out to faint; to lose consciousness. ⬥ When he got
the news, he passed out.
pass someone or something by† to miss someone or something; to overlook someone or something. ⬥ The storm
passed by the town leaving it unharmed.
pass someone or something up† 1. to fail to select someone
or something. ⬥ The committee passed Jill up and chose
Kelly. ⬥ They passed up Jill. 2. to travel past someone
or something. ⬥ We had to pass the museum up, thinking we could visit the next time we were in town.
pass something on† 1. Lit. to hand or give something (to
another person). ⬥ Please pass on this book to the next
person on the list. 2. Fig. to tell someone something; to
spread news or gossip. ⬥ Don’t pass this on, but Bill isn’t
living at home any more.
paste something up† 1. to repair something with paste. ⬥
See if you can paste this book up so it will hold together.
⬥ Paste up the book and hope it holds together for a
while. 2. to assemble a complicated page of material by
pasting the parts together. ⬥ There is no way a typesetter can get this page just the way you want it. You’ll
have to paste it up yourself.
pat something down† to tap something down with the
open hand. ⬥ I heaped some soil over the seeds and patted it down.
patch someone up† to give medical care to someone. ⬥
That cut looks bad, but the doc over there can patch you
up.
patch something up† 1. Lit. to repair something in a hurry;
to make something temporarily serviceable again. ⬥
Can you patch this up so I can use it again? ⬥ I’ll patch
up the hose for you. 2. Fig. to “repair” the damage done
pass out
128
by an argument or disagreement. ⬥ Mr. and Mrs. Smith
are trying to patch things up.
pay someone back† 1. Lit. to return money that was borrowed from a person. ⬥ You owe me money. When are
you going to pay me back? ⬥ You must pay John back.
You have owed him money for a long time. 2. Fig. to get
even with someone [for doing something]. ⬥ I will pay
her back for what she said about me. ⬥ Fred eventually
will pay Mike back. He bears grudges for a long time.
pay someone off† 1. Lit. to pay what is owed to a person.
⬥ I can’t pay you off until Wednesday when I get my
paycheck. 2. Fig. to bribe someone. ⬥ Max asked Lefty
if he had paid the cops off yet.
pay something down† 1. Lit. to make a deposit of money
on a purchase. ⬥ You will have to pay a lot of money
down on a car that expensive. 2. Fig. to reduce a bill by
paying part of it, usually periodically. ⬥ I think I can
pay the balance down by half in a few months.
pay something off† to pay all of a debt; to pay the final payment for something bought on credit. ⬥ This month
I’ll pay the car off.
pay something out† to unravel or unwind wire or rope as
it is needed. (See also play something out.) ⬥ One worker
paid the cable out, and another worker guided it into the
conduit.
pay something up† to pay all of whatever is due; to complete all the payments on something. ⬥ Would you pay
up your bills, please?
pay up to pay what is owed. (Often a command: Pay
up!) ⬥ I want my money now. Pay up!
pay up
129
peal out [for bells or voices] to sound forth musically.
⬥ The bells pealed out to announce that the wedding had
taken place.
peel something off† ((of) something) and peel something
off† from something to remove the outside surface layer
from something. (Of is usually retained before pronouns.) ⬥ She carefully peeled the skin off the apple.
pep someone or something up† to make someone or something more vigorous. ⬥ Nancy needs to take some vitamins to pep her up. ⬥ The coffee break pepped up the
tired workers.
perk someone up† to make someone more cheery or
refreshed. ⬥ A nice cup of coffee would really perk me
up.
perk something up† to refresh or brighten something; to
make something more lively. ⬥ A bit of bright yellow
here and there will perk this room up a lot.
perk up to become invigorated; to become more active.
⬥ After a bit of water, the plants perked up nicely.
peter out [for something] to die or dwindle away; [for
something] to become exhausted gradually. ⬥ When
the fire petered out, I went to bed.
phone someone up† to call someone on the telephone. ⬥
I don’t know what he will do. I will phone him up and
ask him.
pick someone or something apart† 1. Lit. to pick at and pull
someone or something to pieces. ⬥ The vultures attacked the hunger-weakened man and tried to pick him
apart. ⬥ They tried to pick apart the body. 2. Fig. to
analyze and criticize someone or something negatively.
⬥ You didn’t review her performance; you just picked her
apart.
peal out
130
pick someone or something off† Fig. to kill someone or something with a carefully aimed gunshot. ⬥ The hunter
picked the deer off with great skill. ⬥ The killer tried to
pick off the police officer.
pick someone or something out† (for someone or something) to
choose someone or something to serve as someone or
something. ⬥ I picked one of the new people out for
Santa Claus this year.
pick someone up† 1. to attempt to become acquainted
with someone for romantic or sexual purposes. ⬥ Who
are you anyway? Are you trying to pick me up? 2. [for
the police] to find and bring someone to the police station for questioning or arrest. ⬥ The cop tried to pick
her up, but she heard him coming and got away. ⬥
Sergeant Jones, go pick up Sally Franklin and bring her
in to be questioned about the jewel robbery. 3. to stop
one’s car, bus, etc., and offer someone a ride. ⬥ Don’t
ever pick a stranger up when you’re out driving! 4. to go
to a place in a car, bus, etc., and take on a person as a
pick someone up
131
pick someone up (sense 1)
passenger. ⬥ Please come to my office and pick me up
at noon.
pick something over† Fig. to look through something carefully, looking for something special. ⬥ The shoppers
who got here first picked everything over, and there is not
much left.
pick something up† 1. Lit. to lift up or raise something
from a lower place. ⬥ Please help me pick this stuff up
off the pavement. 2. Fig. to tidy up or clean up a room
or some other place. ⬥ Let’s pick this room up in a hurry.
⬥ I want you to pick up the entire house. 3. Fig. to find,
purchase, or acquire something. ⬥ Where did you pick
that up? ⬥ I picked up this tool at the hardware store.
4. Fig. to learn something. ⬥ I picked up a lot of knowledge about music from my brother. 5. Fig. to cause something to go faster, especially music. ⬥ All right, let’s pick
up the tempo and get it moving faster. ⬥ Okay, get moving. Pick it up! 6. Fig. to resume something. ⬥ I’ll have
to pick up my work where I left off. 7. Fig. to receive
radio signals; to bring something into view. ⬥ I can just
pick it up with a powerful telescope. ⬥ I can hardly pick
up a signal. 8. Fig. to find a trail or route. ⬥ You should
pick up Highway 80 in a few miles.
piddle something away† Fig. to waste away money or a
period of time. ⬥ Please don’t piddle all your money
away.
piece something out† 1. Lit. to add patches or pieces to
something to make it complete. ⬥ There is not quite
enough cloth to make a shirt, but I think I can piece it
out with some scraps of a complementary color for the collar. 2. Fig. to add missing parts to a story, explanation,
or narrative to make it make sense. ⬥ Before she passed
out, she muttered a few things and we were able to piece
the whole story out from that.
pick something over
132
pile something up† 1. to crash or wreck something. ⬥
Drive carefully if you don’t want to pile the car up. ⬥ The
driver piled up the car against a tree. 2. to make something into a heap. ⬥ Carl piled all the leaves up and set
them afire.
pile up 1. Lit. [for things] to gather or accumulate. ⬥ The
newspapers began to pile up after a few days. 2. Fig. [for
a number of vehicles] to crash together. ⬥ Nearly
twenty cars piled up on the bridge this morning.
pin someone down† (on something) and nail someone
down† (on something) Fig. to demand and receive a firm
answer from someone to some question. (Alludes to
shifting from answer to answer; commit to one answer
or another.) ⬥ I tried to pin him down on a time and
place, but he was very evasive. ⬥ Don’t try to pin down
the mayor on anything!
pin something back† to hold something back by pinning.
⬥ I will pin the curtains back to let a little more light in.
⬥ Jane pinned back the curtains.
pin something down† and nail something down† 1. Lit. to
attach or affix something with nails or pins. ⬥ Pin the
pattern down temporarily. ⬥ Nail down this piece of
flooring every 12 inches. 2. Fig. to determine or fix
something, such as a date, an agreement, an amount of
money, a decision, etc. ⬥ It will be ready sometime next
month. I can’t pin the date down just yet, however.
pinch something back† to pinch off a bit of the top of a
plant so it will branch and grow more fully. ⬥ You
should pinch this back so it will branch.
pinch something off (of) something and pinch something
off† to sever something from something by pinching.
(Of is usually retained before pronouns.) ⬥ Pinch the
pinch something off (of) something
133
buds off the lower branches so the one at the top will
bloom.
pipe down to become quiet; to cease making noise; to
shut up. (Especially as a rude command.) ⬥ Pipe down!
I’m trying to sleep.
pitch forward to jerk or thrust forward. ⬥ Suddenly
the car pitched forward, jerking the passengers around.
⬥ We pitched forward inside the car as we went over the
bumpy road.
pitch something away† to toss or throw something away.
⬥ He pitched the broken stick away, and looked around
for something stronger.
place something aside† to set something aside or out of
the way. ⬥ Place this one aside and we’ll keep it for ourselves.
place something down† (on something) to put something
down on something. ⬥ Place the book down on the top
of the table.
plan something out† to make thorough plans for something. ⬥ We sat down and planned out our strategy.
plane something away† to smooth off bumps or irregularities with a plane. ⬥ Please plane the bumps away so
that the board is perfectly smooth.
plane something down† to smooth something down with
a plane; to remove some material from something
with a plane. ⬥ I planed down the edge of the door for
you.
plane something off† to remove bumps, nicks, or scrapes
by planing. ⬥ Sam planed off the bumps.
pipe down
134
plaster something up† to close something up with plaster;
to cover over holes or cracks in a wall with plaster. ⬥
You have to plaster up the cracks.
play someone or something down† to lessen the effect or
importance of someone or something. ⬥ John is a
famous actor, but the director tried to play him down as
just another member of the cast.
play someone or something up† to make someone or something seem to be more important. ⬥ The director tried
to play Ann up, but she was not really a star.
play something off† to play a game to break a tied score.
⬥ They decided not to play the tie off because it had
grown so late.
play something out† 1. to play something, such as a game,
to the very end. ⬥ I was bored with the game, but I felt
I had to play it out. 2. to unwind, unfold, or unreel
something. (See also pay something out.) ⬥ Please play
some more rope out.
play something over to replay something, such as a game,
a videotape, an audio recording, etc. ⬥ There was an
objection to the way the referee handled the game, so they
played it over.
play something through† to play something, such as a
piece of recorded music, all the way through. ⬥ I played
the album through, hoping to find even one song I liked.
play something up† to emphasize something; to be a
booster of something. ⬥ The press played the scandal
up so much that everyone became bored with it.
play through [for golfers] to pass someone on the golf
course. ⬥ Do you mind if we play through? We have to
get back to the courtroom by two o’clock.
play through
135
plod along to move along slowly but deliberately. ⬥ I’m
just plodding along, but I am getting the job done. ⬥ The
old man plodded along, hardly able to stand.
plonk something down† to slap something down; to plop
something down. ⬥ He plonked a dollar down and
demanded a newspaper.
plot something out† to map something out; to outline a
plan for something. ⬥ I have an idea about how to
remodel this room. Let me plot it out for you.
plow something up† to uncover something by plowing. ⬥
The farmer plowed some old coins up and took them to
the museum to find out what they were.
plug something up† to stop or fill up a hole, crack, or gap.
⬥ Take out the nail and plug the hole up with something.
plump something up† to pat or shake something like a pillow into a fuller shape. ⬥ He plumped up his pillow.
plunk (oneself) down to sit or fall down hard. ⬥ Nancy
pulled up a chair and plunked herself down. ⬥ She
plunked herself down in the middle of the kids and began
to sing.
point something up† 1. Fig. to emphasize something; to
emphasize one aspect of something. ⬥ This is a very
important thing to learn. Let me point it up one more
time by drawing this diagram on the board. 2. Fig. to
tuck-point something; to repair the joints in masonry.
⬥ I hired someone to point the chimney up.
polish something off† to eat, consume, exhaust, or complete all of something. ⬥ Who polished the cake off ?
polish something up† to rub something until it shines. ⬥
Polish the silver up and make it look nice and shiny.
plod along
136
poop out Inf. to quit; to wear out and stop. ⬥ He pooped
out after about an hour of hard work.
pop off 1. Sl. to make an unnecessary remark; to interrupt with a remark; to sound off. ⬥ Bob keeps popping
off when he should be listening. 2. Sl. to lose one’s temper. ⬥ Now, don’t pop off. Keep your cool. ⬥ I don’t know
why she popped off at me. All I did was say hello. 3. Sl.
to die. ⬥ My uncle popped off last week. ⬥ I hope I’m
asleep when I pop off. 4. Sl. to leave; to depart in haste.
⬥ Got to pop off. I’m late.
pop something up† to remove something by making it
jump or burst upwards. ⬥ Henry popped the lid up and
helped himself to the strawberry preserves.
portion something out† to give out shares of something.
⬥ Who will portion the cake out? ⬥ She portioned out
the chocolate carefully, making sure everyone got an equal
share.
post something up† to record a transaction in an account.
⬥ I’ll post this charge up right away, and then you can
check out.
pot something up† to put plants into pots. ⬥ If you would
like one of these tomato plants, I’ll pot one up for you.
pound something out† 1. Lit. to flatten something by
pounding. ⬥ He pounded the gold leaf out very thin. ⬥
He pounded out the gold leaf. 2. Fig. to play something
loudly on the piano, perhaps with difficulty or clumsily. ⬥ Here, pound this one out. A little softer, please.
3. Fig. to type something on a keyboard. ⬥ I have finished writing it. Can I borrow your laptop so I can pound
it out?
pound something out
137
pound something up† to break something up by pounding. ⬥ Pound the crackers up into crumbs and use them
to coat the chicken before you fry it.
power something up† to start something, such as an engine. ⬥ You should power the engine up and let it run
awhile before you drive away.
power up to start an engine. ⬥ Well, let’s power up so we
will be ready to leave with the others.
prance around to dance, jump, or strut around. ⬥ Stop
prancing around and get to work.
press forward to move forward; to struggle forward; to
continue. ⬥ Do not be discouraged. Let us press forward.
press something together to use pressure to close or unite
things. ⬥ He pressed his lips together and would say no
more.
pretty oneself or something up† Rur. to make oneself or
something more attractive; to tidy oneself or something
up. ⬥ I tried to pretty myself up for him, but he didn’t
notice.
price something down† to lower the price of something.
⬥ When they start pricing this stuff down at the end of
the season, I’ll come in and buy something.
price something out to list and total all the component
prices of goods and services for a complex project. ⬥
I have finished listing all the materials required for the
project, and now I have to price it out so that we can
decide if we can afford it.
primp (oneself) up to get dressed up; to fix oneself up by
combing, brushing, adjusting, etc. ⬥ Let me stop in the
powder room and primp myself up a bit.
pound something up
138
print something up† to set something in type and print it;
to print something by any process. ⬥ This looks OK to
me. Let’s print it up now.
prune something away† to cut away something unwanted
or unneeded. ⬥ Please prune the lower branches of the
trees away. They are starting to annoy pedestrians.
pry something up† to raise something with or as with a
lever. ⬥ See if you can pry that trapdoor up.
psych someone out† 1. Inf. to get someone very excited;
to cause someone to lose mental control. ⬥ Wow! What
you just said really psyched me out! 2. Inf. to figure
someone out; to know how someone thinks. ⬥ It took
me a while to psych out Fred, but I have him figured out
now.
psych someone up† Inf. to get someone excited or mentally prepared for something. ⬥ I psyched myself up to
sing in front of all those people.
psych up Inf. to get mentally ready for something. ⬥ I
have to psych up before the big game tonight. ⬥ We want
to psych up so we can play a good game.
pucker up 1. Lit. to tighten one’s lips together into a circle as if to kiss. ⬥ He puckered up and kissed her once,
and then again. 2. Fig. [for something] to shrink up
and get wrinkled. ⬥ The top edge of the drapes puckered
up and I don’t know how to straighten it out.
puff out to swell out. ⬥ The frog’s throat puffed out, and
we expected to hear a croak.
puff someone or something up† to boost or promote someone or something. ⬥ Judy puffed Nell up so much that
Nell could not begin to live up to her reputation.
puff someone or something up
139
puff something out† to cause something to swell out or
expand outward. ⬥ The frog puffed its throat out and
croaked. ⬥ The frog puffed out its throat and croaked a
mighty croak.
puff up to swell up. ⬥ Her finger puffed up and she
thought she might have an infection. ⬥ His eyelids had
puffed up during the night.
pull oneself together 1. Fig. to compose oneself; to gather
one’s wits about one. ⬥ I have to pull myself together and
try it again. ⬥ Now try to pull yourself together and get
through this crisis. 2. Fig. to gather up one’s things; to
pull one’s things together. ⬥ I’ll be ready to leave as soon
as I pull myself together.
pull someone aside† to grasp and pull a person to one
side. ⬥ I pulled aside the child to say something to him.
pull someone down† Fig. to degrade someone; to humiliate someone. ⬥ I’m afraid that your so-called friends are
pulling you down behind your back.
pull someone or something apart† to separate or dismember
someone or something. ⬥ The murderer pulled his victim apart and sought to dispose of the parts. ⬥ He pulled
apart his victim.
pull someone or something up† to drag or haul someone or
something upward or to an upright position. ⬥ Bob
had slipped down into the creek, so I reached down and
pulled him up. ⬥ I pulled up Bob and nearly fell in
myself.
pull something down† 1. to demolish something; to raze
something. ⬥ Why do they want to pull the building
down? Why not remodel it? ⬥ They are going to pull
down the old building today. 2. to lower or reduce the
puff something out
140
amount of something. ⬥ That last test pulled my grade
down.
pull something off† 1. Inf. to manage to make something
happen. ⬥ Yes, I can pull it off. ⬥ Do you think you can
pull off this deal? 2. and pull something off (of) someone or something Lit. to tug or drag something off someone or something else. (Of is usually retained before
pronouns.) ⬥ Sam pulled the covers off the bed and fell
into it, dead tired. ⬥ He pulled off his clothes and stepped
into the shower.
pull something on† to draw on an article of clothing. ⬥ He
pulled on his pants quickly and ran outside while putting
on his shirt.
pull something to to close something, usually a door of
some type. ⬥ The door is open a little. Pull it to so no
one will hear us.
pump something up† 1. to inflate something. ⬥ Do you
have something with which I can pump my basketball
up? ⬥ I pumped up the ball just an hour ago. 2. Sl. to
exercise to make muscles get bigger and stronger. ⬥
The bodybuilder pumped her muscles up in preparation
for the competition.
punch in to record one’s arrival at one’s workplace at a
certain time. ⬥ What time did you punch in?
punch out to record that one has left one’s workplace at
a certain time. ⬥ Why didn’t you punch out when you
left last night?
punch someone out† Sl. to overcome or beat someone by
punching. ⬥ He threatened to punch me out. ⬥ The thug
punched out the cop and ran down an alley.
punch someone out
141
punch something down† to press something down. ⬥
Punch this lever down and then try to place your telephone call.
punch something in† to crush or smash something in. ⬥
Who punched in the cereal box?
punch something up† to register a figure on a cash register or calculator. ⬥ Jake punched the total up, and the
register drawer opened.
purse something up† to bunch or pucker something up.
(Usually the lips.) ⬥ When he tasted the lemon juice, he
pursed his lips up and spat it out.
push out to spread out; to expand outward. ⬥ His little
tummy pushed out when he was full.
push someone or something aside† to shove someone or
something to one side. ⬥ Martha pushed Bill aside and
went in ahead of him.
push someone or something down† to force someone or
something downward. ⬥ Every time he tried to get up,
the other boys pushed him down again.
push someone or something forward to shove or move
someone or something to the front. ⬥ Mary’s mother
pushed her forward where she would be seen.
push someone or something over† to make someone or
something fall over or fall down. ⬥ When you ran into
me, you nearly pushed me over.
push someone or something up† to raise or lift someone or
something. ⬥ Jake is sliding down again. Push him up.
⬥ Push up the window, please.
push something in† to crush something in; to make something cave in. ⬥ He ran at the door and pushed it in. ⬥
He pushed in the door.
punch something down
142
push something to to close or nearly close something, such
as a door. ⬥ The door is open a little. Please push it to.
⬥ Todd came in and pushed the door to.
put an animal down† Euph. to take the life of an animal
mercifully. ⬥ We put down our old dog last year. ⬥ It’s
kind to put fatally ill animals down.
put an animal out† to send an animal, such as a pet, outdoors. ⬥ Did you put the cat out? ⬥ Yes, I put out the
cat.
put one’s feet up† to sit down, lean back, and rest; to lie
down. ⬥ He was really exhausted and had to go put his
feet up.
put one’s hair up† to arrange one’s hair into a ponytail,
bun, etc. (with curlers, hairpins, etc.). ⬥ I can’t go out
because I just put my hair up.
put one’s hand up† to raise one’s hand to get attention
from whomever is in charge. ⬥ The student put his
hand up to ask a question of the teacher.
put oneself out to inconvenience oneself. ⬥ I just don’t
know why I put myself out for you!
put out to generate [lots of something]. ⬥ What a great
machine. It really puts out!
put roots down† (some place) to settle down somewhere;
to make a place one’s permanent home. ⬥ I’m not ready
to put roots down anywhere yet. ⬥ I’m ready to put down
roots some place.
put someone away† 1. Sl. to kill someone. (Underworld.)
⬥ The gangster threatened to put me away if I told the
police. 2. Euph. to bury someone. ⬥ My uncle died last
week. They put him away on Saturday. 3. and send
someone away Euph. to have someone put into a menput someone away
143
tal institution. ⬥ My uncle became irrational, and they
put him away. 4. and send someone away Euph. to
sentence someone to prison for a length of time.
(Underworld.) ⬥ They put Richard away for fifteen
years. ⬥ The judge put away the whole gang.
put someone off† 1. to delay dealing with someone until
a later time. ⬥ I hate to keep putting you off, but we are
not ready to deal with you yet. 2. to repel someone; to
distress someone. ⬥ You really put people off with your
scowling face. ⬥ You put off people with your arrogance.
3. to avoid or evade someone. ⬥ I don’t wish to see Mr.
Brown now. Please put him off. ⬥ I won’t talk to reporters. Tell them something that will put them off.
put someone or something down† Fig. to belittle or degrade
someone or something. ⬥ It’s an old car, but that’s no
reason to put it down.
put someone or something over to succeed in making someone or something be accepted. ⬥ Do you think we can
put this new product over?
put someone out† to distress or inconvenience someone.
⬥ I’d like to have a ride home, but not if it puts you out.
put someone’s eye out† to puncture or harm someone’s
eye and destroy its ability to see. ⬥ Careful with that
stick or you’ll put your eye out.
put someone under Fig. to anesthetize someone. ⬥ They
put him under with ether.
put someone up† to provide lodging for someone. ⬥ I hope
I can find someone to put me up.
put someone up† (for something) to nominate or offer
someone for some office or task. ⬥ I put Henry up for
club president.
put someone off
144
put something aside† to set or place something to the side.
⬥ I put the magazine aside and began reading a book.
put something away† 1. Lit. to return something to its
proper storage place. ⬥ When you are finished with the
hammer, please put it away. Don’t leave it out. 2. Fig. to
eat something. ⬥ Are you going to put this last piece of
cake away? ⬥ Did you put away that whole pizza?
put something back† to return something to where it was
before. ⬥ Please put the book back when you finish it.
⬥ Put back the book when you finish.
put something down† Fig. to repress or put a stop to something such as a riot or rebellion. ⬥ The army was called
to put down the rebellion. ⬥ The police used tear gas to
put the riot down.
put (something) forth to exert effort. ⬥ You are going to
have to put more effort forth if you want to succeed.
put something forward† to state an idea; to advance an
idea. ⬥ Toward the end of the meeting, Sally put an idea
forward.
put something in† to submit something, such as an order,
request, or demand. ⬥ I put in a request for a new monitor.
put something off† to postpone something; to schedule
something for a later time. ⬥ I put off a visit to the dentist as long as I could.
put something on† to place clothing onto one’s body; to
get into a piece of clothing. ⬥ I put a heavy coat on to
go outside in the cold.
put something on someone or an animal to clothe someone or
an animal in something. ⬥ The mother put a little jacket
on her child.
put something on someone or an animal
145
put something out† 1. to emit something. ⬥ The factory
put a lot of fumes out. 2. to extinguish something on
fire. ⬥ He used flour to put the grease fire out. 3. to
manufacture or produce something. ⬥ That factory
puts electrical supplies out. ⬥ We put out some very fine
products. 4. to publish something. ⬥ When was this
book put out?
put something over† to accomplish something; to put
something across. (See also put someone or something over.)
⬥ This is a very hard thing to explain to a large audience. I hope I can put over the main points.
put something together 1. Lit. to assemble something. ⬥
How long will it take to put dinner together? ⬥ This
model was put together incorrectly. 2. Fig. to consider
some facts and arrive at a conclusion. ⬥ I couldn’t put
everything together to figure out the answer in time.
put something up† 1. to build a building, a sign, a fence,
a wall, etc. ⬥ We’ll put a garage up next month. ⬥ The
city put up a fence next to our house. 2. to store and preserve food by canning or freezing. ⬥ This year we’ll put
some strawberries up.
put the heat on† to turn on central heating; to increase
the amount of heat in a room or house. ⬥ It’s going to
get cold tonight. I’d better put the heat on. ⬥ Let’s put on
the heat to take off the chill.
put weight on† Fig. to gain weight; to grow fat. ⬥ The
doctor says I need to put some weight on.
puzzle something out† to figure something out. ⬥ I can’t
puzzle out the meaning of this argument.
put something out
146
queue up (for something) to line up for something. (Typically British.) ⬥ We had to queue up for tickets to the
play.
quiet down to become quiet; to become less noisy. ⬥
Please quiet down.
quiet someone or an animal down† to make someone or an
animal more quiet. ⬥ Please go and quiet the children
down. ⬥ Try to quiet down the children.
quiz out (of something) to earn permission to waive a college course by successful completion of a quiz or exam.
⬥ Andrew was able to quiz out of calculus.
147
Q
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
race around to run or move around in a great hurry. ⬥
Stop racing around and calm down!
rack out Sl. to go to bed and to sleep. ⬥ I’m really tired.
I’ve got to go rack out for a while.
rack something up† 1. Lit. to place something onto or into
its rack. ⬥ You had better rack the billiard balls up when
you finish this game. 2. Fig. to accumulate something;
to collect or acquire something. ⬥ They all racked a lot
of profits up. ⬥ We racked up twenty points in the game
last Saturday. 3. Sl. to wreck or damage something. ⬥
Fred racked his new car up.
raffle something off† to give something away by a drawing or raffle. ⬥ They are going to raffle off a television
set this weekend at the school.
rain something down† (on someone or something) to pour
something, such as criticism or praise, onto someone
or something. (Based on rain down on someone or something.) ⬥ The employees rained criticism down on the personnel manager for the new policy on sick leave.
rain something out† [for the weather] to spoil something
by raining. ⬥ It’s starting to sprinkle now. Do you think
it will rain out the ball game?
148
R
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
raise someone or something up† to lift someone or something up. ⬥ The aides raised the patient up while the
nurse spread clean linen beneath him.
raise up to lift oneself up; to get up or begin to get up.
⬥ She raised up and then fell back onto her bed. She was
too weak to get up.
rake something around† to spread something around with
a rake. ⬥ She raked the leaves around, spreading them
over the flower beds as natural fertilizer.
rake something in† 1. Lit. to draw or pull something
inward with a rake. ⬥ Jane is raking in the leaves into a
big pile. 2. Fig. to take in a lot of something, usually
money. ⬥ Our candidate will rake votes in by the thousand.
rake something off† to steal or embezzle a portion of a
payment or an account. ⬥ They claimed that no one was
raking anything off and that the money was only mislaid.
rake something off
149
rake something in (sense 2)
rake something up† 1. Lit. to gather and clean up something with a rake. ⬥ Would you please rake these leaves
up before it rains? ⬥ Please rake up the leaves. 2. to clean
something up by raking. ⬥ Would you rake the yard up?
3. Fig. to find some unpleasant information. ⬥ His
opposition raked an old scandal up and made it public.
ram something down† to pack something down by pounding, as with a ram. ⬥ The worker used a pole to ram the
earth down and pack it tight.
rank someone (out†) 1. Sl. to annoy someone. ⬥ He really
ranks me out. What a pest! 2. Sl. to chastise someone.
⬥ She ranked him out for being a coward.
rap something out† (on something) to tap out the rhythm
of something on something. ⬥ Try to rap the rhythm
out on the table.
rasp something out† to carve or smooth something out
with a rasp. ⬥ Rasp out the inside carefully.
ration something out† (among someone) to give people
limited shares of something, attempting to make it last
as long as possible. ⬥ The captain rationed the water
out among all the crew, trying to make it last as long as
possible.
reach down to extend downward. ⬥ The stems of the
plant reached down almost to the floor.
reach out 1. Lit. to extend one’s grasp outward. ⬥ He
reached out, but there was no one to take hold of. 2. Fig.
to enlarge one’s circle of friends and experiences. ⬥ If
you are that lonely, you ought to reach out. Get to know
some new friends.
reach something down† Inf. to hand something down. ⬥
Please reach the hammer down to me.
rake something up
150
read someone out† (for something) to chastise someone
verbally for doing something wrong. ⬥ The coach read
the player out for making a silly error.
read something off† to read aloud from a list. ⬥ Nick read
the list of the names off, and I wasn’t on the list.
read something out† to read something aloud. ⬥ Please
read it out so everyone can hear you.
read something over† to read something. ⬥ When you have
a chance, read this over.
read something through† to read all of something. ⬥ Take
this home and read it through.
ream someone out† Sl. to scold someone severely. ⬥ The
teacher really reamed him out.
ream something out† to widen or clean an interior cavity
or channel by scraping, grinding, or drilling. ⬥ Ream
the opening out so the flow will be faster.
rear back 1. Lit. [for a horse] to pull back and up onto
its hind legs in an effort to move backward rapidly or
throw a rider. ⬥ The animal reared back in terror. 2. Fig.
[for a person] to pull back and stand up or sit up
straighter. ⬥ He reared back in his chair and looked perturbed.
rear up 1. Lit. [for a horse] to lean back on its hind legs
and raise its front legs, assuming a threatening posture
or avoiding something on the ground such as a snake.
⬥ When the horse reared up, I almost fell off. 2. Fig. [for
something, especially a problem] to raise up suddenly.
⬥ A new problem reared up and cost us a lot of time.
reason something out† to figure something out; to plan a
reasonable course of action. ⬥ Now let’s be calm and try
to reason this out.
reason something out
151
reef a sail in† to reduce the area of a ship’s sail, by folding the sail. ⬥ The first mate ordered the sailors to reef
the sails in.
reel something in† to bring in something, such as a fish,
by winding up the line on a reel. ⬥ With great effort,
she reeled the huge fish in.
rein someone or something in† to bring someone or something under control; to slow down or hold back
someone or something. ⬥ Fred is getting out of hand.
The boss undertook to rein him in a bit. ⬥ The boss is
trying to rein in Jane’s enthusiasm.
rein something up† to bring something, usually a horse, to
a stop. ⬥ She reined her horse up and stopped for a chat.
⬥ Rein up your horse and stop for a while.
rein up [for a horse rider] to stop. ⬥ The equestrian
reined up and dismounted. ⬥ We all reined up and
waited for the cars to pass by.
remain behind to stay at a place even when others have
left. ⬥ Can’t I go too? Do I have to remain behind?
remain together to stay close together; to stay in association. ⬥ We will have to remain together while we are
on this tour. It is very easy to get lost in this town.
remain up to stay awake and out of bed. ⬥ I remained
up throughout most of the night.
render something down† 1. Lit. to cook the fat out of
something. ⬥ Polly rendered the chicken fat down to a
bit of golden grease that she would use in cooking a special dish. ⬥ Jane rendered down the fat for use later.
2. Fig. to reduce or simplify something to its essentials.
⬥ Let’s render this problem down to the considerations
that are important to us. ⬥ Can’t we render down this
matter into its essentials?
reef a sail in
152
rent something (out†) (to someone) to sell temporary rights
for the use of something to someone. ⬥ I like to rent
the back room out to a nice young student. ⬥ We rented
the back room to someone.
report in to present oneself; to make one’s presence
known. ⬥ He reported in and his name was taken off the
absentee list.
rev something up† to make an idling engine run very fast,
in short bursts of power. ⬥ I wish that Tom wouldn’t
sit out in front of our house in his car and rev up his
engine.
rev up to increase in amount or activity. ⬥ We’re hoping
business will rev up soon.
ride away to depart, riding a bike or a horse or similar
animal. ⬥ They rode away without saying good-bye.
ride off to depart, riding something such as a horse or a
bicycle. ⬥ Betty said good-bye and rode off.
ride on to continue to ride, traveling onward. ⬥ We rode
on for at least an hour before finding a rest stop.
ride someone or an animal down† to chase down someone
or an animal while riding horseback. ⬥ The mounted
policeman rode the mugger down and captured him. ⬥
The rider rode down the thief.
ride something down to ride on something that is going
down, such as an elevator. ⬥ I don’t want to ride the
cable car down. I will walk.
ride something out† to endure something unpleasant.
(Originally referred to ships lasting out a storm.) ⬥ It
was a nasty situation, but the mayor tried to ride it out.
rig something up† to prepare something, perhaps on short
notice or without the proper materials. ⬥ We don’t have
rig something up
153
what’s needed to make the kind of circuit you have
described, but I think we can rig something up anyway.
rile someone up† to get someone excited and angry. ⬥ He
riles up everyone he talks to.
ring back to call back on the telephone. ⬥ She’s not here
now. I suggest you ring back after dinner.
ring out [for a loud sound] to go out. ⬥ The bells rang
out at the end of the wedding ceremony. ⬥ Loud cheers
rang out at the end of the game.
ring someone back† to call someone back on the telephone. ⬥ I will have to ring back the store at a later time.
ring someone up† to call someone on the telephone. ⬥
I have to ring up a whole list of people.
ring something up† to record the cost of an item on a cash
register. ⬥ Please ring this chewing gum up first, and I’ll
put it in my purse.
ring the curtain up† 1. Fig. to raise the curtain in a theater. (Alludes to sending the signal to raise the curtain.)
⬥ The stagehand rang the curtain up precisely on time.
2. Fig. to start a series of activities or events. ⬥ I am
set to ring up the curtain on a new lifestyle.
rinse someone or something down† to wash or clean someone or something with water or other fluid. ⬥ I rinsed
him down for an hour and still didn’t get the smell of
skunk off him.
rinse someone or something off† to wash or clean someone
or something by flushing with water or other fluid. ⬥
Mother rinsed the baby off and dried him with a soft
towel.
rinse someone’s mouth out† (with soap) and wash
someone’s mouth out† (with soap) Fig. to punish one
rile someone up
154
by washing one’s mouth out with soap, especially for
using foul language. (Usually a jocular threat.) ⬥ If you
say that again, I’ll rinse your mouth out with soap.
rinse something down† (with something) to wash something down one’s throat with a liquid; to follow something that one has eaten with a drink to aid its going
down. ⬥ Alice rinsed the cheeseburger down with a milkshake.
rinse something out† 1. to clean cloth or clothing partially
by immersing it in water and squeezing it out. ⬥ Can
you please rinse this rag out? It’s all dirty. 2. to launder
something delicate, such as feminine underwear, using
a mild soap. ⬥ After I rinse out some things, I will be
right with you. 3. to clean the inside of a container partially by flushing it out with water. ⬥ Rinse the bottle
out and throw it away.
rip off [for something] to tear or peel off. ⬥ My pocket
ripped off, and my money is gone now!
rip someone off† Inf. to steal [something] from someone;
to cheat someone. ⬥ That merchant ripped me off!
rip someone or something apart† to tear someone or something apart into pieces. ⬥ The automobile accident
ripped the car apart.
rip someone or something up† to tear someone or something
into bits; to mutilate someone or something. ⬥ Careful! That machine will rip you up if you fall in.
rip something down† to tear something down. (Alludes to
something that has been posted or mounted.) ⬥ The
custodian ripped all the posters down at the end of the
day.
rip something down
155
rip something off† Inf. to steal something [from someone].
⬥ The mugger ripped my purse off of me. ⬥ Jane ripped
off a lot of money.
rip something up† to take something up by force and
remove it. (Usually refers to something on the floor or
ground, such as carpeting or pavement.) ⬥ They are
going to rip all the broken sidewalk up.
rise up 1. to come up; to ascend. ⬥ The water is rising
up fast. You had better get to higher ground. 2. to get up
from lying down. ⬥ The deer rose up and darted off into
the woods.
roar away to speed away, making a loud clamor. ⬥ The
car roared away into the night with tires screeching.
roll about to move about, turning or rotating, as a wheel
or a ball. ⬥ The ball rolled about a while and then came
to rest.
roll along 1. Lit. [for wheels or something on wheels] to
move along, smoothly and rapidly. ⬥ The wheels of the
cart rolled along, making a grinding noise as they went.
2. Fig. [for something] to progress smoothly. ⬥ The
project is rolling along nicely.
roll around to move about, rotating, turning over, turning, or moving on wheels. ⬥ The baby rolled around on
the floor, giggling and cooing.
roll away to move away, rotating, turning over, turning,
or moving on wheels. ⬥ The cart rolled away, and we
had to chase it down the hill.
roll back [for something] to return, rotating or turning
or moving on wheels. ⬥ I rolled the ball away, thinking
it would roll back. It didn’t.
rip something off
156
roll by 1. Lit. to pass by, rotating, as a wheel or a ball; to
move past, rolling on wheels. ⬥ The wheel of a car rolled
by, all by itself. It must have come off a car somewhere
down the road. ⬥ The traffic rolled by relentlessly. 2. Fig.
to move (past), as if rolling. ⬥ The years rolled by, and
soon the two people were old and gray.
roll down to move downward, rotating, as a wheel or a
ball, or to move downward on wheels. ⬥ I pushed the
wagon up the driveway, and it rolled down again.
roll in Fig. to come in large numbers or amounts, easily,
as if rolling. (Alludes to the arrival of many wheeled
conveyances.) ⬥ We didn’t expect many people at the
party, but they just kept rolling in.
roll on 1. Lit. [for something] to continue rolling. ⬥ The
cart came rolling down the hill and rolled on for a few
yards at the bottom. 2. Lit. [for something] to be applied
by rolling. ⬥ This kind of deodorant just rolls on. ⬥ She
rolled on too much paint and it dripped from the ceiling.
3. Fig. [for something, such as time] to move on slowly
and evenly, as if rolling. ⬥ The years rolled on, one by
one.
roll one’s sleeves up† 1. Lit. to turn one’s sleeves upward,
exposing the arms. ⬥ He rolled his sleeves up and began
to wash the dishes. 2. Fig. to prepare to get to work. ⬥
Let’s roll our sleeves up and get this job done!
roll over to turn over; to rotate one half turn. ⬥ The old
man rolled over and started snoring again.
roll something away† to cause something to move away,
rotating, turning over, turning, or moving on wheels.
⬥ Jane rolled the ball away and it was lost.
roll something away
157
roll something back† to return something to someone by
rotating it, as with a wheel or a ball, or moving it back
on wheels. ⬥ I intercepted the ball and rolled it back.
roll something down† 1. to move something down, making it rotate like a wheel or a ball, or moving it on
wheels. ⬥ Don’t carry the ball down; roll it down! 2. to
crank down something, such as a car window. ⬥ Please
roll the window down and get some air in this car.
roll something in† to bring something in by rotating it like
a wheel or a ball or by moving it on wheels. ⬥ She put
the round table on its edge and rolled it in. Then she went
out and got the chairs before the rain started.
roll something out† 1. to bring or take something out by
rolling it; to push something out on wheels. ⬥ Jane
rolled her bike out to show it off. 2. to flatten something
by rolling it. ⬥ You should roll the pastry out first. ⬥
They rolled out the steel in a huge mill.
roll something over† Fig. to renew a financial instrument
as it expires. ⬥ Are you going to roll over your certificates of deposit?
roll something up† to coil or rotate something into a coil
or roll of something. ⬥ I rolled the poster up and put it
back in its mailing tube.
roll something up† (into something) 1. to include something
into something that is being rotated into a coil. ⬥
I guess I accidentally rolled the letter up into the poster
that was lying on my desk. 2. to make something into a
round shape by rolling it. ⬥ He rolled the gum up into
a ball and tossed it away.
romp around to run and bounce around playfully. ⬥
The horses were in the meadow, romping around in the
crisp autumn air.
roll something back
158
roof something over† to build a roof over something; to
provide something with a roof. ⬥ After the destructive
storm they had to roof the shed over so that the cow would
have some shelter.
room together [for two or more people] to share a
room, as in a college dormitory. ⬥ Sarah and I roomed
together in college.
root something out† to get rid of something completely;
to destroy something to its roots or core. ⬥ No government will ever root out crime completely.
root something up† [for a pig] to find something in the
ground by digging with its nose. ⬥ The pigs will root
your plants up if they get out of their pen.
rope someone or an animal up† to tie someone or an animal
up with a rope. ⬥ Rope this guy up tight so he won’t get
away.
rope something off† to isolate something with a rope barrier. ⬥ The police roped the scene of the accident off.
rot away to decompose; to decompose and fall away. ⬥
The fallen trees rotted away and surrendered their nutrients to the soil.
rot off to decompose. ⬥ If you don’t clean and repaint
that old windowsill, it will rot off.
rot out to decompose and fall out. ⬥ If you don’t clean
your teeth regularly, they’ll rot out!
rough someone up† to beat someone up; to maltreat someone. ⬥ Am I going to have to rough you up, or will you
cooperate?
rough something in† to construct or draw something initially, temporarily, or crudely. ⬥ The carpenter roughed
the doorways in without consulting the plans.
rough something in
159
rough something out† to make a rough sketch of something. ⬥ I will rough it out and have one of the staff
artists attend to the details.
rough something up† to scrape or rub something in a way
that makes it rough. ⬥ All you have to do is rough the
ground up, sow the seeds, and then water them.
round someone or something up† to locate and gather someone or something. ⬥ The police rounded up the two possible suspects.
round something down† to reduce a fractional part of a
number to the next lowest whole number. ⬥ Please
round down all figures having fractions less than onehalf.
round something off† to change a number to the next
higher or lower whole number. ⬥ I rounded off 8.789
to 9.
round something off† (with something) to finish something
with something; to complement something with something. ⬥ We rounded off the meal with a sinful dessert.
round something out† to complete or enhance something.
⬥ We will round the evening out with dessert at a nice
restaurant.
round something up† 1. to collect a group of people or
things; to organize people or things into a group. ⬥ See
if you can round some helpers up. 2. to change a number to the next higher whole number. ⬥ You should
round $65.99 up to $66.
rub someone out† Sl. to kill someone. (Underworld.) ⬥
The gunman was eager to rub somebody out.
rub something away† to remove something by chafing or
rubbing. ⬥ See if you can rub some of the dirt away.
rough something out
160
rub something in† Fig. to keep reminding one of one’s failures; to nag someone about something. ⬥ I like to rub
it in. You deserve it!
rub something out† to obliterate something by rubbing. ⬥
See if you can rub those stains out. ⬥ Rub out the graffiti on the side of the car if you can.
rub something up† to raise something, such as the nap of
a rug, by rubbing. ⬥ When you run the vacuum cleaner
across the floor, you rub the nap of the rug up and get
the dirt out.
ruffle something up† to raise something, such as feathers,
up or outward. ⬥ The bird ruffled its feathers up and
started to preen.
rule someone or something out† to prevent, disqualify, overrule, or cancel someone or something. ⬥ John’s bad
temper rules him out for the job.
rumple someone or something up† to bring disorder to
someone[‘s clothing] or something; to wrinkle someone or something. ⬥ One of the little boys knocked
another boy down and rumpled him up.
run along to leave. ⬥ I have to run along now. Good-bye.
run around 1. to run here and there. ⬥ Why are you
running around? Sit down and be quiet. 2. to go here
and there having meetings or doing errands. ⬥ I’ve been
running around all day, shopping for the party tonight.
run away (from someone or something) to flee someone or
something. ⬥ Please don’t run away from me. I mean
you no harm.
run back to come back, running. ⬥ She ran to the barn
and then ran back.
run back
161
run down 1. to come down, running or very quickly; to
go down, running or very quickly. ⬥ I need to talk to
you down here. Can you run down? 2. [for something]
to lose power and stop working. ⬥ The clock ran down
because no one was there to wind it. ⬥ The toy ran down
and wouldn’t go again until it had been wound. 3. to
become worn or dilapidated. ⬥ The property was
allowed to run down, and it took a lot of money to fix it
up.
run off 1. to flee. ⬥ The children rang our doorbell and
then ran off. ⬥ They ran off as fast as they could. 2. to
have diarrhea. ⬥ He said he was running off all night.
⬥ One of the children was running off and had to stay
home from school. 3. [for a fluid] to drain away from a
flat area. ⬥ By noon, all the rainwater had run off the
playground.
run on 1. to continue running. ⬥ I wanted to stop her and
ask her something, but she just ran on. ⬥ The joggers
had a chance to stop and rest, but they just ran on. 2. to
continue on for a long time. ⬥ The lecture ran on and
bored everyone to tears.
run over 1. to come by for a quick visit. ⬥ Can you run
over for a minute after work? ⬥ I will run over for a
minute as soon as I can. 2. to overflow. ⬥ The bathtub
ran over and there was water all over the floor.
run someone in† to arrest one and take one to the police
station. ⬥ The cop ran George in so they could question
him extensively.
run something back† to wind something back to the beginning. ⬥ Run the tape back and listen to it again.
run something down† to use something having batteries,
a motor, or an engine until it has no more power and
it stops. ⬥ Who ran my electric toothbrush down?
run down
162
run something off† 1. to get rid of something, such as fat
or energy, by running. ⬥ The little boys are very excited.
Send them outside to run it off. 2. to duplicate something, using a mechanical duplicating machine. ⬥ If the
master copy is ready, I will run some other copies off.
run something up† 1. Lit. to raise or hoist something, such
as a flag. ⬥ Harry ran the flag up the flagpole each
morning. 2. Fig. to cause something to go higher, such
as the price of stocks or commodities. ⬥ A rumor about
higher earnings ran the price of the computer stocks up
early in the afternoon. 3. Fig. to accumulate indebtedness. ⬥ I ran up a huge phone bill last month. ⬥ Walter
ran up a bar bill at the hotel that made his boss angry.
4. to stitch something together quickly. ⬥ She’s very
clever. I’m sure she can run up a costume for you.
rush something off† (to someone or something) to send something quickly to someone or something. ⬥ I will rush
your order off to you immediately.
rust away to dissolve away into rust. ⬥ In a few years,
this car will rust away if you don’t take care of it.
rust out to develop holes or weak places owing to rust.
⬥ Our hot water heater rusted out and flooded the basement.
rustle something up† Rur. to manage to prepare a meal,
perhaps on short notice. ⬥ I think I can rustle something
up for dinner.
rustle something up
163
sack something up† to put something into bags or sacks.
⬥ Please sack the groceries up and put them in the cart.
saddle an animal up† to put a saddle on a horse or some
other beast of burden. ⬥ Please saddle my horse up. I
have to leave.
saddle up 1. Lit. to prepare one’s horse for riding by
putting a saddle on it. ⬥ Let’s saddle up and go for a ride.
2. Fig. to mount one’s horse and sit in the saddle. ⬥ The
cowboys saddled up and took off after the rustlers.
sail around to travel by water in a boat or ship. ⬥ We
sailed around for about an hour and then went back to
the shore.
sally forth to go forth; to leave and go out. ⬥ The soldiers sallied forth from behind the stone wall.
salt something away† 1. Lit. to store and preserve a foodstuff by salting it. ⬥ The farmer’s wife salted a lot of
fish and hams away for the winter. 2. Fig. to store something; to place something in reserve. ⬥ I need to salt
some money away for my retirement.
salt something down† to place salt on something, such as
icy roads. ⬥ I won’t go out until midmorning, after they
have salted the roads down.
sand something down† 1. to make something smooth by
rubbing it with sandpaper. (To act on the main body
164
S
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
of the object, not the imperfections.) ⬥ You should sand
the board down before you paint it. 2. to remove bumps
or imperfections on the surface of something by rubbing them with sandpaper. (To act on the imperfections, not the main body of the object.) ⬥ Sand these
bumps down, will you?
save money up† (for something) to accumulate or amass
an amount of money for the purchase of something. ⬥
I’m saving my money up for a car.
save something up† to save something; to accumulate
something. ⬥ If you’d only save your money up, you
could buy anything you want.
saw something down† to cut something down with a saw.
⬥ We are going to have to saw that dead tree down before
it falls on the house.
scab over [for a wound] to form a scab. ⬥ The wound
soon scabbed over and the injury was well on its way to
healing.
scale something down† to reduce the size or cost of something. ⬥ The bad economy forced us to scale the project
down.
scamper along [for a child or small animal] to run along
nimbly. ⬥ The rabbit scampered along, unaware that a
fox was following it.
scamper away [for a child or small animal] to run away
nimbly. ⬥ The rabbit scampered away across the lawn.
⬥ The children scampered away when they heard the
teacher coming.
scare someone or an animal off† to frighten someone or an
animal away. ⬥ The dog’s barking scared the burglar off.
scare someone or an animal off
165
scare someone or something up† Rur. to search for and find
someone or something. ⬥ Go out in the kitchen and
scare some food up.
scoop something up† to gather and remove something by
scooping, dipping, or bailing. ⬥ Karen scooped the nuts
up and put them in a bag.
scour something out† to clean something out by scouring.
⬥ Please scour out the pans—don’t just wash them.
scout someone or something out† to search for and discover
someone or something. ⬥ I will scout a new salesclerk
out for you if you want.
scout someone or something up† to search for and find
someone or something. ⬥ I’ll scout up a costume for the
Halloween party.
scrape something out† to empty something by scraping.
⬥ Scrape the pan out. Don’t leave any of that good sauce
inside.
scrape something together† to gather things together by
scraping. ⬥ The waiter scraped all the crumbs together
and removed them from the table with a little gadget.
scratch someone or something out† to mark out the name
of someone or something. ⬥ I scratched John out and
wrote in George instead.
scratch someone or something up† to damage or mar someone or something by scratching. ⬥ Being thrown clear
of the car in the accident didn’t break any bones, but it
scratched her up a lot.
scream someone down† to scream loudly at someone; to
outscream someone. ⬥ They screamed her down and
drove her from the platform.
scare someone or something up
166
screw someone or something up† Inf. to interfere with someone or something; to mess up someone or something.
⬥ Try again and don’t screw it up this time.
screw someone up† Inf. to confuse someone mentally. ⬥
Please don’t screw me up again!
screw something down† to secure something to the floor
or a base by the use of screws. ⬥ You had better screw
these seats down or someone will knock them over.
screw something up† to attach something to a higher place
by the use of screws. ⬥ The bracket holding the shelf up
has come loose. Will you please screw it up again?
screw up 1. Inf. to mess up. ⬥ I hope I don’t screw up
this time. ⬥ The waiter screwed up again. 2. Inf. a mess;
a blunder; utter confusion. (Usually screw-up.) ⬥ This
is the chef ’s screw-up, not mine.
scribble something down† to write something down fast
and not too neatly. ⬥ He scribbled the figure down and
raced for the telephone.
scrounge someone or something up† Fig. to find someone
or something somewhere; to dig someone or something
up. ⬥ I can’t think of anyone just now, but I will scrounge
someone up.
scrub someone or something down† to clean someone or
something thoroughly by rubbing. ⬥ The mother
scrubbed the baby down gently and put lotion on her.
scrub someone or something off† to clean someone or something by rubbing. ⬥ Mother scrubbed Timmy off.
scrub something away† to clean something away by rubbing. ⬥ See if you can scrub that rust away.
scrub something away
167
scrub something out† to clean out the inside of something
by rubbing or brushing. ⬥ Please scrub these pots out
and put them away.
scrub up 1. Lit. to clean oneself up. ⬥ You have to scrub
up before dinner. ⬥ Please go scrub up before you come
to the table. 2. Fig. to clean oneself, especially one’s
hands and arms, as a preparation for performing a surgical procedure. ⬥ The surgeon scrubbed up thoroughly
before the operation.
scrunch down to squeeze or huddle down into a smaller
shape. ⬥ Mary scrunched down, trying to hide behind
the chair.
scrunch something up† to crush or crunch up. ⬥ I pounded
the biscuits and scrunched them up into crumbs.
scuff something up† to scrape or scratch something. ⬥
Please don’t scuff up my freshly polished floors!
see someone off† to accompany one to the point of departure for a trip and say good-bye upon departure. ⬥ We
went to the train station to see Andy off.
see something through to follow through on something
until it is completed. ⬥ Mary is prepared to see the project through.
seize something up† to grab or take something. ⬥ The crow
seized the freshly hatched chick up and flew away.
seize up to freeze or halt; to grind suddenly to a stop. ⬥
The engine seized up, and the car coasted to a stop.
sell out [for an item] to be sold until there is no more.
⬥ All the plastic hangers have sold out.
sell someone out† and sell someone down the river to
betray someone; to reveal damaging information about
someone. ⬥ Bill told everything he knew about Bob, and
scrub something out
168
that sold Bob down the river. ⬥ You’ll be sorry if you sell
me out.
sell something off† to sell all of something. ⬥ We ended up
with a large stock of out-of-style coats and we had to sell
them all off at a loss.
sell something out† to sell all of something. ⬥ Have they
sold their supply out yet?
send someone or something along† to help someone or
something continue along; to send someone. ⬥ I knew
it was time for Johnny to go home, so I sent him along.
send someone or something away† to cause someone, a
group, or something to leave. ⬥ The store sent away all
late deliveries.
send someone or something back† to cause someone or
something to return. ⬥ He came to apologize, but I sent
him back.
send someone or something down† to dispatch someone or
something to some place on a lower level. ⬥ They
wanted someone downstairs to help with the moving, so
I sent John down.
send someone or something up† 1. Lit. to order someone to
go upward to a higher level; to arrange for something
to be taken upward to a higher level. ⬥ They are hungry on the tenth floor. Let’s send some sandwiches up.
2. Fig. to parody or ridicule someone or something. ⬥
Comedians love to send the president or some other
famous person up.
send someone up† Fig. to mock or ridicule, particularly
by imitation. ⬥ Last week, he sent the prime minister up.
send someone up
169
serve something out† to carry out one’s duty or responsibility for the whole time, all the way to the end. ⬥ She
was unable to serve her term out.
serve something up† to distribute or deliver food for people to eat. ⬥ The cook served the stew up and then passed
around the bread.
set in to begin; to become fixed for a period of time. ⬥
A severe cold spell set in early in November.
set someone off† 1. Fig. to cause someone to become very
angry; to ignite someone’s anger. ⬥ That kind of thing
really sets me off! ⬥ Your rude behavior set off Mrs.
Franklin. 2. Fig. to cause someone to start talking or
lecturing about a particular subject. ⬥ When I mentioned high taxes it really set Walter off. He talked and
talked.
set someone or something down† and put someone or something down† to lower or set down someone or something. ⬥ Put me down! ⬥ Please set that vase down. It
cost a fortune.
set someone up† to lead—by deception—a person to play
a particular role in an event; to arrange an event—usually by deception—so that a specific person suffers the
consequences for the event; to frame someone. ⬥ I had
nothing to do with the robbery! I was just standing there.
Somebody must have set me up! ⬥ John isn’t the one who
started the fight. Somebody set up the poor guy.
set something aside† to place something in a place that is
to one side or out of the way. ⬥ Betty set the manuscript
aside until she had more time to work on it.
set something back† and put something back† to set something, like a timepiece, to a lower number. (Put is less
common.) ⬥ It’s that time of year when you must set
serve something out
170
your clocks and watches back! ⬥ Set back your clock
tonight.
set something down† and put something down† 1. to place
something on the surface of something. ⬥ Andy set the
hot skillet down on the dishcloth and burned a hole in it.
2. to write something on paper. ⬥ Let me put this down
on paper so we will have a record of what was said. ⬥ I
will set down this note on paper. 3. to land an aircraft.
⬥ The pilot put the plane down exactly on time.
set something forth† to explain something; to present some
information. ⬥ She set her ideas forth in an organized
and interesting manner.
set something forward 1. to move something to a more
forward position. ⬥ Please set the chair forward a little
bit. It is in the walkway. ⬥ If you set the vase forward, it
will show up better against the dark background. 2. to
reset a timepiece to a later time. ⬥ You are supposed to
set your clock forward at this time of year.
set something off† 1. Lit. to ignite something, such as fireworks. ⬥ The boys were setting firecrackers off all afternoon. ⬥ They set off rocket after rocket. 2. Fig. to cause
something to begin. ⬥ The coach set the race off with a
shot from the starting pistol. 3. Fig. to make something
distinct or outstanding. ⬥ The lovely stonework sets the
fireplace off quite nicely.
set something up† 1. Lit. to put something together; to
erect something. ⬥ My parents bought me a dollhouse,
but I had to set it up myself. 2. Fig. to establish or found
something. ⬥ We set up a fund to buy food for the needy.
set to to begin to fight; to attack or commence someone
or something. ⬥ The two boys set to almost as soon as
they met each other.
set to
171
settle down 1. to calm down. ⬥ Now, children, it’s time
to settle down and start class. ⬥ If you don’t settle down,
I’ll send you all home. 2. to settle into a stable way of
life; to get married and settle into a stable way of life.
⬥ Tom, don’t you think it’s about time you settled down
and stopped all of this running around?
settle in to become accustomed to one’s new surroundings; to get used to living in a place or a new dwelling.
⬥ I need a little time to settle in, then I can think about
buying a car.
sew someone or something up† 1. Lit. to stitch together an
opening in someone or something. ⬥ The surgeon sewed
the patient up and pronounced the operation a success.
2. Fig. to complete one’s dealings with or discussion of
someone or something. ⬥ It’s time to sew this up and
go home. ⬥ I think we can sew up the shipping contract
this afternoon and get on to someone else.
shake a disease or illness off† Fig. [for the body] to fight
off a disease or illness. ⬥ I hope I can shake off this flu
pretty soon.
shake someone down† 1. to blackmail someone. (Underworld.) ⬥ Fred was trying to shake Jane down, but she
got the cops in on it. ⬥ The police chief was trying to
shake down just about everybody in town. 2. to put pressure on someone to lend one money. ⬥ We tried to
shake down Max for a few hundred, but no deal.
shake someone or something off† Fig. to get rid of someone;
to get free of someone who is bothering you. ⬥ Stop
bothering me! What do I have to do to shake you off ?
shake someone or something up† to jostle or knock someone or something around; to toss someone or something back and forth. ⬥ We rode over a rough road, and
that shook us up.
settle down
172
shake someone up† to shock or upset someone. ⬥ The
sight of the injured man shook me up.
shake something off† to get rid of something that is on one
by shaking. ⬥ I tried to shake the spider off. ⬥ The dog
shook off the blanket Billy had put on him.
shake something out† 1. Lit. to clean something of dirt or
crumbs by shaking. ⬥ Can you shake out your coat? It’s
really dusty. 2. and shake something down† Fig. to test
something to find out how it works or what the problems are. ⬥ I need to spend some time driving my new
car to shake it out. ⬥ We need to shake down this car
before I buy it.
shake something up† 1. Lit. to shake a container to mix
its contents together well. ⬥ Please shake this up before
using it. ⬥ I shook up the medicine bottle like it says on
the label. 2. Fig. to reorganize a group or organization,
not always in a gentle way. ⬥ The new manager shook
the office up and made things run a lot better.
shake something up
173
shake someone down (sense 2)
shape someone up† to get someone into good physical
shape; to make someone behave or perform better. ⬥
I’ve got to shape myself up to improve my health.
shape up 1. to improve; to reform. ⬥ I want to get things
shaped up around here. ⬥ I guess I’d better shape up if
I want to stay in school. 2. to assume a final form or
structure. ⬥ The game plan for the election was beginning to shape up.
shook up upset; shocked. ⬥ Relax, man! Don’t get shook
up! ⬥ I always get shook up when I see a bad accident.
shoot one’s mouth off† Inf. to boast or talk too much;
to tell secrets. ⬥ Don’t pay any attention to Bob. He’s
always shooting his mouth off.
shoot something down† Fig. to foil a plan through criticism; to counter an idea with criticism. ⬥ He raised a
good point, but the others shot him down almost immediately.
shoot something out† 1. to stick, throw, or thrust something outward. ⬥ The diamond shot bright shafts of light
out when the sun fell on it. 2. to settle a matter by the
use of guns. ⬥ Bill and the cowboy—with whom he had
been arguing—went out in the street and shot it out.
shore someone up† Fig. to prop up or support someone.
⬥ Mary’s solid character and personality helped shore
her up during her recent problems with the law.
shore something up† to prop up or support something. ⬥
The storm weakened the foundation of our house, and we
had to have workers shore up the house.
shout someone or something down† to overwhelm someone or something by shouting. ⬥ Mary was trying to
speak, but Sally shouted her down. ⬥ Ann brought up a
very important suggestion, but Bob shouted it down.
shape someone up
174
show off to do things in a way that is meant to attract
attention. ⬥ Please stop showing off! You embarrass me.
show someone or something off† to display someone or
something so that the best features are apparent. ⬥ Bill
drove around all afternoon showing his new car off.
show someone up† to make someone’s faults or shortcomings apparent. ⬥ John is always trying to show someone up to make himself look better.
show up to appear; to arrive. ⬥ Where is John? I hope he
shows up soon. ⬥ When will the bus show up?
shuck something off† 1. to take something off. ⬥ Tom
shucked his jacket off and sat on the arm of the easy chair.
2. to get rid of someone or something. ⬥ She shucked
all her bad habits off.
shut someone up† to silence someone. ⬥ Oh, shut yourself
up! ⬥ Will you please shut up that crying baby!
Shut up! Inf. Be quiet! (Impolite.) ⬥ Bob: And another
thing. Bill: Oh, shut up, Bob! ⬥ Andy: Shut up! I’ve heard
enough! Bob: But I have more to say!
sign in to indicate that one has arrived somewhere and
at what time by signing a piece of paper or a list. ⬥
Please sign in so we will know you are here.
sign off 1. Lit. [for a broadcaster] to announce the end
of programming for the day; [for an amateur radio
operator] to announce the end of a transmission. ⬥
Wally signed off and turned the transmitter off. 2. Fig.
to quit doing what one has been doing and leave, go to
bed, quit trying to do something, etc. ⬥ I have to sign
off and get to bed. See you all.
sign off
175
sign on to announce the beginning of a broadcast transmission. ⬥ The announcer signed on and then played
“The Star-Spangled Banner.”
sign out to indicate that one is leaving a place or going
out temporarily by signing a piece of paper or a list. ⬥
I forgot to sign out when I left.
sign someone in† to record that someone has arrived
somewhere and at what time by recording the information on a paper or a list. ⬥ I will sign you in. What
is your name?
sign someone on† to employ someone; to recruit someone
as an employee. ⬥ How many workers did the manager
sign on?
sign someone up† (for something) to record the agreement
of someone, including oneself, to participate in something. ⬥ Has anyone signed you up for the office picnic?
sign someone up† (with someone or something) to record the
agreement of someone to join someone, a group of people, or an organization. ⬥ I want to sign George up with
our softball team.
sign something away† to sign a paper in which one gives
away one’s rights to something. ⬥ Valerie signed her
rights away.
sign something in† to record that something has been
received at a particular time by recording the information on a paper or a list. ⬥ I have to sign this package
in, then I will be right with you.
silt up [for a body of water] to become filled with silt.
⬥ The river moved too fast to silt up.
simmer down 1. Lit. to decrease in intensity. (As boiling dies down when the heat is lowered or removed.)
sign on
176
⬥ When things simmer down in the fall, this is a much
nicer place. 2. Fig. [for someone] to become calm or less
agitated. ⬥ I wish you would simmer down.
sink down to sink or submerge. ⬥ The sun sank down
and darkness spread across the land. ⬥ She sat in the
chair and sank down, enjoying her moment of relaxation.
sink in 1. Lit. to sink, submerge, or descend into something. ⬥ It might take days for the oil to sink in, so you
have time to clean it up. 2. Fig. [for knowledge] to be
understood. ⬥ I pay careful attention to everything I
hear in calculus class, but it usually doesn’t sink in.
sit down to be seated; to sit on something, such as a
chair. ⬥ Please sit down and make yourself comfortable.
sit something out† not to participate in something; to wait
until something is over before participating. ⬥ Oh,
please play with us. Don’t sit it out.
sit up 1. to rise from a lying to a sitting position. ⬥ When
the alarm went off, he sat up and put his feet on the floor.
⬥ She couldn’t sleep, so she sat up and read a book. 2. to
sit more straight in one’s seat; to hold one’s posture
more upright while seated. ⬥ Please sit up. Don’t slouch!
size someone or something up† to observe someone or something to get information. ⬥ The comedian sized the
audience up and decided not to use his new material. ⬥
I like to size up a situation before I act.
skate around to skate here and there in no particular
direction. ⬥ Let’s go over to the pond and skate around.
sketch something in† to draw in the image of someone or
something. ⬥ I sketched a figure of a woman in so that
she appears to be standing beneath the tree.
sketch something in
177
sketch something out† to create a rough idea or image of
something by sketching or some other means. (Does
not necessarily require an actual sketch.) ⬥ Sally
sketched the furniture arrangement out so we could get
an idea of what it was to look like.
slack off 1. to taper off; to reduce gradually. ⬥ Business
tends to slack off during the winter months. 2. [for someone] to become lazy or inefficient. ⬥ Near the end of
the school year, Sally began to slack off, and her grades
showed it.
slam someone or something down† to drive or strike someone or something downward. ⬥ The wrestler slammed
his opponent down hard.
slap someone down† 1. Lit. to cause someone to fall by
striking with the open hand. ⬥ She became enraged and
slapped him down when he approached her again. 2. Fig.
to squelch someone; to rebuke or rebuff someone. ⬥
I had a great idea, but the boss slapped me down.
slap something down† to strike downward with something
flat in one’s hand. ⬥ She slapped the dollar bill down in
great anger and took her paper cup full of water away
with her.
slap something on† Inf. to dress in something hastily. ⬥
Henry slapped a shirt on and went out to say something
to the garbage hauler.
slash and burn 1. Lit. of a farming technique where
vegetation is cut down and burned before crops are
planted. (Hyphenated before nominals.) ⬥ The small
farmers’ slash-and-burn technique destroyed thousands
of acres of forest. 2. Fig. of a crude and brash way of
doing something. (Hyphenated before nominals.) ⬥
The new manager’s method was strictly slash and burn.
sketch something out
178
He looks decisive to his boss and merciless to the people
he fires.
sleep in to oversleep; to sleep late in the morning. ⬥ If
you sleep in again, you’ll get fired.
sleep out to sleep outside or away from one’s home. ⬥
Can I sleep out tonight?
sleep something away† to spend or waste a specific period
of time sleeping. ⬥ You can’t sleep the whole day away!
sleep something off† to sleep while the effects of liquor or
drugs pass away. ⬥ Bill is at home sleeping off the effects
of the drug they gave him.
sleep together 1. [for two or more people] to share
a bed. ⬥ Do you mean that Fred and Dave have to
sleep together? ⬥ My brother and I used to have to sleep
together. 2. Euph. [for two people] to copulate. ⬥ Do
you think they slept together?
slice something off† to cut something off with slicing
motions. ⬥ Sue sliced the dead branches off with a tree
saw.
slick something down† to brush or comb down hair, usually with some sort of dressing or water. ⬥ He used
something gooey—grease or something—to slick his hair
down.
slick something up† to tidy up something or some place.
⬥ I have to slick this house up a little.
slide along to slip or glide along. ⬥ The sled slid along
at a good clip down the gently sloping hill.
slide around to slip or skid around. ⬥ Many cars slide
around on the roads when they are icy.
slide around
179
slide by to get along with a minimum of effort. ⬥ She
didn’t do a lot of work—she just slid by.
slim down to become thinner; to lose weight. ⬥ You have
really slimmed down a lot since I last saw you. ⬥ I need
to eat less so I can slim down.
slim someone down† to cause someone to lose weight. ⬥
They started to slim her down in the hospital, but she
gained the weight back as soon as she got out.
sling something out† 1. to toss or heave something outward. ⬥ The fishermen slung their nets out into the
water. ⬥ They slung out their nets. 2. to throw something away. ⬥ Just sling all that old junk out, if you will.
slink around to creep or slither around furtively. ⬥ Don’t
slink around like that. Someone is likely to take you for
a robber.
slink away to creep or slither away furtively. ⬥ The fox
slunk away, leaving the henhouse as quietly as such a
thing is possible.
slink off to creep away furtively. ⬥ Carl was embarrassed
and tried to slink off, but the ushers spotted him.
slip by 1. and slip by someone or something to move by
someone or something quickly or unnoticed; to move
through a tight area or past someone or something in
a tight area. ⬥ The hall was narrow, and I could hardly
have slipped by. 2. [for time] to pass quickly or unnoticed. ⬥ Goodness, almost an hour has slipped by! How
time flies.
slip down to slide or glide downward. ⬥ His socks kept
slipping down. ⬥ He lost so much weight that his pants
almost slipped down.
slide by
180
slip out 1. [for someone] to exit quietly without bothering anyone. ⬥ I slipped out during intermission. 2. [for
information] to be spoken without realizing that it is
secret or privileged. ⬥ The secret about her divorce
slipped out when we were discussing old friends.
slip something back† 1. to pull or place something back.
⬥ Alice slipped the gearshift lever back and away they
went. ⬥ She slipped back the gearshift and sped away.
2. to return something secretively. ⬥ Someone took my
wallet away and slipped it back later.
slip something down† to slide something downward. ⬥
I slipped my pants down a little so the doctor could give
me a shot in what they call your “hip.”
slip something off† to let an item of clothing slide off one’s
body; to remove an item of clothing easily or casually.
⬥ He slipped his coat off and put it on a chair.
slip up something to climb something, slipping along the
way. ⬥ The hikers slipped up the wet slope.
slither along to slink or crawl along. ⬥ The snake slithered along, unmindful of our presence.
slither away to sneak or crawl away, like a snake. ⬥ The
little lizards slithered away soundlessly.
slop over [for a liquid] to splash out of or overflow a
container. ⬥ Her cup slopped over and spilled its contents
on the kitchen table.
slosh over [for a liquid] to splash over its container. ⬥
The water in the wading pool sloshed over and made the
grass slippery.
slosh something around† to cause a liquid to rush or
splash in a container. ⬥ The chef sloshed the dressing
around a few times and poured it on the salad.
slosh something around
181
slouch around to move around with a stooped or bent
body. (One may slouch because of age, illness, fatigue,
depression, fear, or with the intention of not being
observed.) ⬥ She is slouching around because she is tired.
slouch down to slump or droop down. ⬥ Don’t always
slouch down, Timmy! Stand up straight.
slouch over to lean or crumple and fall to one side;
[for someone] to collapse in a sitting position. ⬥ He
slouched over and went to sleep in his chair.
slough something off† 1. Lit. to brush or rub something
off. ⬥ The snake sloughed its old skin off. ⬥ It sloughed
off its skin. 2. Fig. to ignore or disregard a negative
remark or incident. ⬥ I could see that the remark had
hurt her feelings, but she just pretended to slough it off.
slow someone or something up† and slow someone or something down† to cause someone or something to reduce
speed. ⬥ I’m in a hurry. Don’t try to slow me down. ⬥
Please slow up the train. There are sheep near the track.
slow up to go slower; to reduce speed in order for someone or something to catch up. ⬥ Slow up a little! I can’t
keep up with you!
sluice something down† to rinse something down; to flood
the surface of something with water or other liquid to
clean it. ⬥ John sluiced the driveway down.
sluice something out† to rinse something out; to flood the
inside of something to clean it. ⬥ Sluice the wheelbarrow out, will you?
slump down [for someone] to collapse and fall down;
[for someone] to crumple. ⬥ The shot hit Max and he
slumped down.
slouch around
182
slump over [for someone] to collapse and fall over forward in a sitting position. ⬥ Just after the gunshot,
Bruno slumped over and slid from his chair.
smack someone down† 1. Lit. to knock a person down or
cause a person to retreat with a slap or a blow. ⬥ He
tried to touch her again and she smacked him down.
2. Fig. to rebuke someone. ⬥ She smacked him down
by telling him that he didn’t fit in there anymore. ⬥ He
has a way of smacking down people who ask stupid questions.
smarten up to get smarter; to become more alert and
knowing. ⬥ You had better smarten up if you want to
survive around here.
smash someone’s face in† 1. Fig. to crush someone’s face.
⬥ The accident smashed Harry’s face in, and he had to
have extensive surgery. 2. Inf. to strike someone in the
face. ⬥ You had better stop that or I will smash your face
in.
smash something in† to crush something inward; to make
something collapse inward by striking it. ⬥ Andy gave
one good kick and smashed the box in.
smash something up† to break something up; to destroy
something. ⬥ I hope the children don’t smash any of the
good china up if we use it tonight.
smell something up† to cause a bad or strong odor in a
place or on something. ⬥ Your cooking sure smelled this
place up!
smoke something up† to cause something or a place to
become smoky. ⬥ Get out of here with that cigarette! I
don’t want you smoking my house up!
smooth something away† to remove something, such as
wrinkles or other unevenness, by pressing or smoothsmooth something away
183
ing. ⬥ Jeff put the cloth on the table and smoothed the
wrinkles away with his hand.
smooth something back† to flatten and position something by pressing or smoothing. ⬥ He smoothed his hair
back out of his eyes.
smooth something down† to make something flat or
smooth by pressing. ⬥ She smoothed her skirt down,
fluffed her hair, and went into the boardroom.
smooth something out† 1. Lit. to flatten or even something
by smoothing or pressing. ⬥ Wally smoothed the
bedspread out. ⬥ Wally finished making the bed by
smoothing out the spread. 2. Fig. to polish and refine
something. ⬥ The editor smoothed John’s style out.
3. and smooth something over† Fig. to reduce the
intensity of an argument or a misunderstanding; to try
to make people feel better about something disagreeable that has happened. (Fig. on Q.) ⬥ Mary and John
had a terrible argument, and they are both trying to
smooth it over. ⬥ Let’s get everyone together and try to
smooth things out. We can’t keep on arguing with one
another.
smuggle someone or something out of some place and
smuggle someone or something out† to move someone or
something across a border out of a place illegally and
in secret. ⬥ Judy smuggled her cousin out of the country in a van.
snake along to move along in a curving line, looking
like a snake; to move along in a line, moving as a snake
moves. ⬥ The train snaked along, gaining speed as it
went downhill.
snap someone’s head off Fig. to speak very sharply to
someone. ⬥ How rude! Don’t snap my head off! ⬥ Mary
snapped Ted’s head off because he had come in late.
smooth something back
184
snap something back† to cause something to jerk back. ⬥
The force of the crash snapped his head back and injured
his neck.
snap something into something and snap something in† to
put or press something into something with an audible snap. ⬥ Next, you snap this little part into this slot
here.
snap something off† to break off something brittle. ⬥ Liz
snapped a bit of the rock off and put it in her bag.
snap something on† to attach something to something else,
causing an audible snap. ⬥ Dawn took two pills from the
bottle and snapped the lid on.
snap something up† 1. Lit. to grasp something quickly. ⬥
Karen snapped her pencil up and strode out of the room.
⬥ Harry walked through the kitchen and snapped up two
cookies on the way. 2. Fig. to purchase something
quickly, because the price is low or because the item is
so hard to find. (Fig. on Q.) ⬥ We put the cheap shirts
out for sale this morning and people snapped them up in
only a few minutes. ⬥ They snapped up the bargains
quickly. 3. Fig. to believe something eagerly; to believe
a lie readily. ⬥ They are so gullible that you can say anything and they’ll snap it up.
snarl someone or something up† to tangle someone or something; to mess something up. ⬥ The wind snarled my
hair up terribly.
snarl something out† to utter something by snarling or
growling. ⬥ Lefty snarled a naughty word out at the
police. ⬥ Walt the pickpocket snarled out a curse as the
cop grabbed his coat collar.
snatch something up† 1. Lit. to grasp something and lift
it up. ⬥ Tom snatched the last cookie up and popped it
snatch something up
185
into his mouth. 2. Fig. to collect or acquire as many of
something as possible. ⬥ The shoppers snatched the sale
merchandise up very quickly.
sniff someone or something out† to locate someone or something by sniffing or as if by sniffing. ⬥ The dog sniffed
the intruder out and the police captured him.
snuff someone out† Sl. to kill someone. ⬥ Max really
wanted to snuff the eyewiteness out, once and for all.
snuff something out† to extinguish something, such as a
flame. ⬥ She snuffed all the candles out and went to bed.
⬥ Karen snuffed out the flames one by one.
snuggle down (into something) to nestle into something,
such as a warm bed. ⬥ Toby snuggled down into his nice
warm bed.
snuggle down (with someone) to nestle [into something]
with someone else. ⬥ Billy snuggled down with his sister
in the big feather bed.
snuggle down (with something) to nestle [into something] with something, such as a blanket, doll, book,
etc. ⬥ Sally grabbed onto her favorite doll and snuggled
down for the night.
snuggle (up) against someone or something to press or
cuddle against someone or something, as if to keep
warm. ⬥ Tiffany snuggled up against Tad and asked him
to give her some chewing gum. ⬥ He snuggled against the
warm wall on the other side of the fireplace.
snuggle up (to someone or something) to cuddle up close
to someone or something. ⬥ She snuggled up and said
she wanted him to go pick up a pizza.
soak something up† 1. Lit. to gather up moisture or a liquid, using an absorbent cloth, paper, etc. ⬥ Alice soaked
sniff someone or something out
186
the spill up with a sponge. 2. Lit. [for cloth, paper, or
other absorbent material] to absorb moisture or a liquid. ⬥ Please get some paper towels to soak the spill up.
3. Fig. to learn or absorb some information; to learn
much information. ⬥ I can’t soak information up as fast
as I used to be able to. ⬥ The tourists will soak up anything you tell them.
soap someone or something down† to cover someone or
something thoroughly with soap or suds. ⬥ Mother
soaped Timmy down and rinsed him off in warm water.
sob something out† to speak something out while sobbing.
⬥ Wally sobbed his story out while the police made notes.
sober someone up† 1. Lit. to take actions that will cause
a drunken person to become sober. ⬥ Some coffee ought
to sober him up. ⬥ He tried to sober himself up because
he had to drive home. 2. Fig. to cause someone to face
reality. ⬥ The harsh reality of what had happened
sobered him up immediately. ⬥ The arrival of the police
sobered up all the revelers.
sober up to recover from alcohol or drug intoxication.
⬥ Barlowe had one hour to sober up and get to the station.
sock someone or something in† [for fog] to cause someone
or something to remain in place. ⬥ The heavy fog socked
us in for six hours.
sock something away† to place something, such as money,
into reserve; to store something in a secure place. ⬥
I try to sock a little money away each month for my vacation. ⬥ I will sock away some money.
soften someone up† Fig. to prepare to persuade someone
of something. ⬥ I will talk to Fred and soften him up
for your request.
soften someone up
187
soften something up† to take actions that will make something softer. ⬥ Soften the butter up before you add it to
the batter.
soften up 1. Lit. [for something] to become softer. ⬥
The candles will probably soften up and bend over in this
hot weather. 2. Fig. [for someone] to adopt a more gentle manner. ⬥ After a while, she softened up and was
more friendly.
sop something up† to mop or soak up a liquid. ⬥ Use this
rag to sop the spilled milk up.
sort oneself out to pull oneself together; to figure out what
to do about one’s problems. ⬥ I need a few days to sort
myself out.
sort something out† 1. Lit. to sort something; to arrange
according to class or category. ⬥ Let’s sort these cards
out. 2. Fig. to study a problem and figure it out. ⬥
I can’t sort this out without some more time.
sound off to speak something loudly; to call out one’s
name or one’s place in a numerical sequence. ⬥ All
right, sound off, you guys!
sound someone out† to try to find out what someone
thinks (about something). ⬥ I don’t know what Jane
thinks about your suggestion, but I’ll sound her out.
sound something out† to pronounce the letters or syllables
of a word as a means of figuring out what the word is.
(Usually said to a child.) ⬥ This word is easy, Bobby. Try
to sound it out.
soup something up† to increase the power of something.
⬥ He souped his car up so it will do nearly 120 miles per
hour. ⬥ If only I could soup up this computer to run just
a little faster.
soften something up
188
space out to become giddy or disoriented. ⬥ Judy spaced
out during the meeting and I didn’t understand a word
she said.
space someone out† to cause someone to become giddy.
⬥ The circus clowns just spaced me out.
spade something up† to turn over the soil in a garden plot
with a spade. ⬥ Please go out and spade the garden up
so I can plant the potatoes and onions.
spark something off† 1. Lit. to ignite something flammable or explosive. ⬥ The lightning sparked a fire off. ⬥
The match sparked off a raging inferno. 2. Fig. to cause
or start some violent or energetic activity. ⬥ We were
afraid there would be a riot and the speaker nearly
sparked it off.
speak out to speak loudly; to speak to be heard. ⬥ Please
speak out. We need to hear you.
speak out (on something) to say something frankly and
directly. ⬥ This law is wrong, and I intend to speak out
on it until it is repealed. ⬥ You must speak out. People
need to know what you think.
speak up 1. Lit. to speak more loudly. ⬥ They can’t hear
you in the back of the room. Please speak up. ⬥ What?
Speak up, please. I’m hard of hearing. 2. Fig. to speak
out (on something). ⬥ If you think that this is wrong, you
must speak up and say so. ⬥ I’m too shy to speak up.
speed someone or something up† to cause someone or something to move faster. ⬥ We tried to speed him up, but
he is just a very slow person. ⬥ We sped up the process,
but it still took too long.
spell someone down† to win over someone in a spelling
match. ⬥ Frank spelled everyone else down and won the
spelling bee.
spell someone down
189
spell something out† 1. Lit. to spell something (with letters). ⬥ I can’t understand your name. Can you spell it
out? ⬥ Please spell out all the strange words so I can write
them down correctly. 2. Fig. to give all the details of
something. ⬥ I want you to understand this completely,
so I’m going to spell it out very carefully.
spew something out† to have something gush forth. ⬥ The
faucet spewed a little yellowish water out and stopped
altogether.
spew something up† to gush something upward. ⬥ The
geyser spewed hot water and steam up every hour on the
hour.
spice something up† 1. Lit. to make some food or drink
more spicy. ⬥ Judy spiced the cider up by adding cinnamon and nutmeg. ⬥ She spiced up the chili too much.
2. Fig. to make something more interesting, lively, or
sexy. ⬥ I’m afraid that the nude scenes spiced the musical up too much. Some people walked out. ⬥ Judy liked
to spice her lectures up by telling jokes. ⬥ She spiced up
each lecture with a joke.
spiel something off† to recite a list of things very rapidly;
to recite something very rapidly. ⬥ I used to be able to
spiel the names of the presidents off.
spiff something up† to polish and groom something very
well; to make something clean and tidy. ⬥ See if you can
spiff this place up a little.
spill over 1. [for a container] to overflow. ⬥ I hope your
bucket of water doesn’t spill over. ⬥ The milk glass spilled
over because it was filled too full. 2. [for the contents of
a container] to overflow. ⬥ The bucket is too full. I don’t
know why the water doesn’t spill over.
spell something out
190
spin around 1. to turn around to face a different direction. ⬥ Jill spun around to face her accuser. ⬥ Todd spun
around in his chair so he could see who was talking to
him. 2. to rotate, possibly a number of times. ⬥ The
propellers spun around and soon the old plane began to
taxi down the runway.
spin off [for something] to part and fly away from something that is spinning; [for something] to detach or
break loose from something. ⬥ The blade of the lawn
mower spun off, but fortunately no one was injured.
spin something off† 1. Lit. [for something rotating] to
release a part that flies away. ⬥ The propeller spun one
of its blades off and then fell apart all together. 2. Fig.
[for a business] to divest itself of one of its subparts.
⬥ The large company spun one of its smaller divisions
off. ⬥ It spun off a subsidiary and used the cash to pay
down its debt. 3. Fig. [for an enterprise] to produce
useful or profitable side effects or products. ⬥ We will
be able to spin off a number of additional products. ⬥
The development of this product will allow us to spin off
dozens of smaller, innovative products for years to come.
spin something out† to prolong something. ⬥ Was there
really any need to spin the whole process out so long?
spiral down to descend in a spiral path. ⬥ A path spiraled down and at the bottom was a small refreshment
stand.
spiral up to ascend in a spiral path. ⬥ The smoke spiraled
up to the sky.
spirit someone or something away† (somewhere) to sneak
someone or something away to another place. ⬥ The
police spirited the prisoner away before the crowd assembled in front of the jail.
spirit someone or something away (somewhere)
191
spirit someone or something off† (to some place) to hurry
someone or something away, presumably unnoticed, to
another place. ⬥ Aunt Jane spirited the children off to
bed at half-past eight.
spit something out† 1. Lit. to cast something from the
mouth. ⬥ The food was so terrible that I spit it out. ⬥ I
spit out the sweet potatoes. 2. Fig. to manage to say
something. ⬥ Come on! Say it! Spit it out! ⬥ Spit it out!
Get it said! 3. Fig. to say something scornfully. ⬥ He
spit out his words in utter derision. ⬥ She spit out the
most unpleasant string of curse words I have ever heard
from anyone.
spit something up† Euph. to vomit something. ⬥ Sally was
afraid she was going to spit up her dinner.
splash down [for a space capsule] to land in the water.
⬥ The capsule splashed down very close to the pickup
ship.
splash something about to scatter or slosh a liquid about.
⬥ Please don’t splash that about. It will stain anything
you spill it on.
splay out to spread out; to extend out at an angle. ⬥ His
feet splayed out so much that it was hard to see how he
could stand up. ⬥ The legs of the table splayed out and
gave it sturdy support.
splice something together† to connect things together,
usually by twisting or tying a joint between the two. ⬥
I spent over an hour splicing the two ends of the ropes
together, and it didn’t hold for even a minute.
split people up† to separate two or more people (from
one another). ⬥ If you two don’t stop chattering, I’ll have
to split you up.
spirit someone or something off (to some place)
192
split someone or something up† (into something) to divide
people or things up into something, such as groups. ⬥
I split up the class into two discussion sections.
sponge someone or something down† to remove the [excess]
moisture from someone or something; to wipe someone or something with a sponge. ⬥ The fight manager
sponged his boxer down.
sponge something away† to absorb, wipe up, and wipe
away something, as with a sponge. ⬥ I will sponge away
the mess.
sponge something up† to absorb or take up moisture, as
with a sponge. ⬥ I had to sponge the spilled milk up
from the floor, the chair, the table, and the baby. What
a mess!
spoon something out† to serve something out, as with a
spoon; to give something out, as with a spoon. ⬥ The
cook spooned the beans out, giving plenty to each camper.
spoon something up† to serve something that requires
finding and bringing up out of a pot with a spoon. ⬥
The cook spooned the hard-cooked eggs up one by one.
spout something out† 1. Lit. to exude a liquid. ⬥ The hose
spouted the cooling water out all over the children. 2. Fig.
to blurt something out; to speak out suddenly, revealing some important piece of information. ⬥ She
spouted the name of the secret agent out under the effects
of the drug. ⬥ She spouted out everything we wanted to
know.
sprawl out to spread oneself out casually while lounging. (Usually done one time, not habitually.) ⬥ He
sprawled out and took up most of the space.
sprawl out
193
spread out to separate and distribute over a wide area.
⬥ The sheriff told the members of the posse to spread out
and continue their search.
spread something out† to open, unfold, or lay something
over a wider area. ⬥ Spread the wet papers out so they
will dry.
spring up to appear or develop suddenly; to sprout, as
with a seedling. ⬥ We knew it was really spring when all
the flowers sprang up. ⬥ It seems as if the tulips sprang
up overnight.
sprout up to grow upward quickly, as do newly sprouted
seedlings. ⬥ Many of the newly planted seeds failed to
sprout up on time.
spruce someone or something up† 1. Lit. to tidy up and
groom someone or something. ⬥ Laura’s mother took
a few minutes to spruce her daughter up for the party.
2. Fig. to refurbish or renew someone or something. ⬥
Do you think we should spruce this room up a little?
spur someone on† to urge someone onward; to egg someone on. (Fig. on applying spurs to a horse.) ⬥ The crowd
spurred the runners on throughout the race.
sputter out [for a flame] to go out in little puffs. ⬥ The
fire sputtered out after midnight and we all got very cold
before dawn.
squander something away† to waste something; to use up
something valuable wastefully. ⬥ Where is all the money
I gave you last month? Did you squander it all away?
square someone away† to get someone or something
arranged or properly taken care of. ⬥ See if you can
square Bob away in his new office.
spread out
194
square something off† to make something square; to trim
something until it is square. ⬥ You will have to square
this corner off a bit so it will match the part it will be
attached to.
square something up† to cause something to have right
angles. ⬥ Please square the door frames up better before
you nail them in.
squash someone or something up† to grind someone or
something up; to mash someone or something up. ⬥
You had better stay out of the traffic, or some big truck
will squash you up!
squash something down† to crush something down; to
pack something down. ⬥ Squash the ice cream down so
the air will be pushed out.
squash something in† to crush or make something concave
by squashing or mashing. ⬥ The children squashed the
Halloween jack-o’-lantern in and ruined it.
squeeze someone or something up† to press people or things
close together. ⬥ The usher tried to squeeze us up so she
could seat more people.
squirrel something away† Fig. to hide something or store
something in the way that a squirrel stores nuts for use
in the winter. ⬥ I squirreled a little money away for an
occasion such as this.
stack something up† to make a stack of things. (Also without the up.) ⬥ Where should I stack them up?
stack up [for something] to accumulate, as in stacks. ⬥
Your work is stacking up. You will have to work late to
finish it.
stack up
195
stagger around to go about tottering or wobbling, especially as if drunk. ⬥ The wounded man staggered around
and then fell.
stake someone or something out† 1. to position a person so
that someone or something can be observed or followed. ⬥ The cops staked the car out and made the
arrest. ⬥ Barlowe staked out the apartment building and
watched patiently for an hour. 2. to position a person
to observe someone or something. ⬥ He staked his best
operative out in front of the building.
stake something off† to mark out the boundaries of an
area of land with stakes. ⬥ The prospectors staked an
area off for themselves.
stall someone or something off† to put off or delay someone
or something. ⬥ The sheriff is at the door. I’ll stall him
off while you get out the back door.
stammer something out† to manage to say something, but
only haltingly. ⬥ Fred stammered the words out haltingly.
stamp someone out† Sl. to get rid of or kill someone. (Fig.
on stamp something out.) ⬥ You just can’t stamp somebody
out on your own!
stamp something out† Fig. to eliminate something. ⬥ The
doctors hope they can stamp cancer out.
stand around to wait around, standing; to loiter. ⬥
Please don’t stand around. Get busy!
stand aside 1. Lit. to step aside; to get out of the way.
⬥ Please stand aside while the bridal party passes by. ⬥
The guests stood aside while the bride and groom left.
2. Fig. to withdraw and ignore something; to remain
passive while something happens. ⬥ He just stood aside
and let his kids behave as they pleased.
stagger around
196
stand by to wait and remain ready. (Generally heard in
communication, such as broadcasting, telephones, etc.)
⬥ Your transatlantic telephone call is almost ready. Please
stand by.
stand down 1. to step down, particularly from the witness stand in a courtroom. ⬥ The bailiff told the witness to stand down. 2. [for military forces] to move
away from readiness for war. ⬥ After the peace treaty
was signed, troops on both sides stood down.
stand someone or something off† to repel the attack of someone or something; to defend against someone or something; to stave someone or something off. ⬥ It was all
we could do to stand them off.
stand someone up† 1. to place someone into a standing
position. ⬥ I tried to stand him up, but he was just too
tired. ⬥ Let’s try to stand up Timmy and get him awake.
2. to fail to show up for a meeting or a date. ⬥ He stood
her up once too often, so she broke up with him. ⬥ Tom
stood up Mary once, and she never forgave him.
stand together 1. to stand in a group. ⬥ All the members of the family stood together for a photograph. ⬥
Please stand together so I can count you. 2. to remain
united. ⬥ We must stand together if we want to defeat
this enemy.
stand up 1. to arise from a sitting or reclining position.
⬥ He stood up and looked across the valley. ⬥ She had
been sitting for so long that it was a pleasure to stand up.
2. to be in a standing position. ⬥ I stood up throughout the whole trip because there were no more seats on
the train. 3. to wear well; to remain sound and intact.
⬥ This material just doesn’t stand up well when it’s
washed. ⬥ Her work doesn’t stand up under close scrustand up
197
tiny. 4. [for an assertion] to remain believable. ⬥ His
testimony will not stand up in court.
stare someone down† to pressure someone to capitulate,
back down, or yield by staring. ⬥ Don’t try to stare me
down. I have nerves of steel.
start off to begin; to set out on a journey. ⬥ We will start
off as soon as we can get everything packed.
start over to begin again. ⬥ I have messed this up so much
that there is nothing to do now but start over.
start someone over to cause someone to begin again; to
lead someone to begin again. ⬥ The orchestra messed
up the first few bars, so the conductor started them over
again.
start something up† to start something, such as a car or
some procedure. (Also without up.) ⬥ It was cold, but
I managed to start up the car without any difficulty.
start up to begin; to begin running, as with an engine.
⬥ The car started up without a problem.
stash something away† to hide something; to set something aside for use at a later time. ⬥ Please stash this
away somewhere. You may need it someday.
stave someone or something off† to hold someone or something off; to defend against the attack of someone or
something. ⬥ The citizen was not able to stave the mugger off.
stave something in† to crush something in. (The past tense
is usually stove with ships, and otherwise, staved.) ⬥
The rocks on the reef staved the hull of the ship in.
stay behind [for someone] to remain in a place when
others have left. ⬥ I will stay behind and tell the late
arrivers where you have gone.
stare someone down
198
stay down to remain in a prone, squatting, or sitting
position. ⬥ Stay down until the danger is over.
steam someone up† 1. Sl. to get someone excited. ⬥ Steam
yourselves up and get in there and win this game! 2. Sl.
to get someone angry. ⬥ This whole mess steamed me
up but good.
steam something up† to cause something to be covered
with water vapor due to the presence of steam. ⬥ Our
breaths steamed the windows up.
steam up 1. Lit. to become covered with a film of steam
or water vapor. ⬥ The windows steamed up and we had
to wipe them so we could see out. 2. to drink heavily; to
get drunk. ⬥ Fred and Mike were steaming up in the
back room.
step off to come off something by taking a step. ⬥ She
came to the bottom step and stepped off.
step something down† to reduce the intensity or amount
of something by one step or grade. ⬥ See if you can
step the lights down a little.
step something up† 1. to make something more active. ⬥
I hope we can step the pace of business up in the next few
days. 2. to make something go or run faster. ⬥ The
engineer stepped the motors up and the production line
moved even faster.
step up to increase. ⬥ Industrial production stepped up
a large amount this last quarter.
stick around [for a person] to remain in a place. ⬥ Oh,
Ann. Please stick around for a while. I want to talk to you
later.
stick out to project outward. ⬥ You can’t lock your suitcase because there is a bit of cloth sticking out.
stick out
199
stick someone or something up† to rob someone or a business establishment. (Presumably with the aid of a gun.)
⬥ Max tried to stick the drugstore up.
stick something down† to fasten something down, as with
glue or paste. ⬥ Get some glue and stick down this wallpaper, please.
stick something out† to endure something; to stay with
something. (The something can be vaguely expressed
using it.) ⬥ I will stick it out as long as I can.
stick something together 1. to glue or paste something
together. ⬥ Use glue to stick these pieces together. ⬥
Please stick the pieces of the broken vase together with
glue. 2. to assemble something, perhaps in haste. ⬥ He
just stuck the model plane together, making a mess of it.
stick something up† 1. to fasten something to a place where
it can be seen; to put something on display, especially
by gluing, tacking, or stapling. ⬥ Stick this notice up.
Put a copy on every bulletin board. 2. to raise something; to hold something up. ⬥ She stuck her hand up
because she knew the answer.
stick together 1. Lit. to adhere to one another. ⬥ The
noodles are sticking together. What shall I do? ⬥ You need
to keep the pieces separate while you fry them or else they
will stick together. 2. Fig. to remain in one another’s
company. ⬥ Let us stick together so we don’t get lost. ⬥
They stuck together through thick and thin.
stick up to stand upright or on end; to thrust upward.
⬥ The ugly red flower stuck up from the bouquet. ⬥ Why
is the worst-looking flower sticking up above all the rest?
stiffen something up† to make something rigid or tense.
⬥ He added a little starch to the rinse water to stiffen his
collars up a bit.
stick someone or something up
200
stiffen up to become stiff. ⬥ The bread dough stiffened
up as it got cold. ⬥ My knees began to stiffen up after I
sat still for an hour.
stink something up† to make something or some place
smell very bad. ⬥ The rotten eggs will stink up the whole
house.
stir someone up† Fig. to get someone excited; to get someone angry. ⬥ The march music really stirred the audience up. ⬥ The march stirred up the audience.
stir something into something and stir something in† to mix
something into something. ⬥ The painter stirred too
much red pigment into the paint.
stir something up† 1. Lit. to mix something by stirring. ⬥
Please stir the pancake batter up before you use it. 2. Fig.
to cause trouble. ⬥ Why are you always trying to stir
trouble up?
stitch something up† to sew something together; to mend
a tear or ripped seam. ⬥ I tore my shirt. Would you stitch
it up, please?
stoop down to dip, duck, or squat down. ⬥ I had to
stoop down to enter the tiny door.
stoop over to bend over. ⬥ As he stooped over, he lost his
balance and fell.
store something away† to put something away for future
use; to set something aside. ⬥ Store the extra rice away
for use next week.
store something up† to build up and lay away a supply of
something. ⬥ The bears will store fat up for the long
winter.
store something up
201
stow away to conceal oneself in a vehicle, originally a
ship, in order to travel without paying. ⬥ Don got to this
country by stowing away on a cargo ship.
stow something away† to pack something away. ⬥ I have
to stow my clothes away before I go to bed. ⬥ Please stow
away your things and get right to work.
straighten out 1. to become straight. ⬥ The road finally
straightened out. 2. to improve one’s behavior or attitude. ⬥ I hope he straightens out before he gets himself
into real trouble.
straighten someone out† 1. to make someone’s body
straight or orderly. ⬥ The undertaker straightened Sam
out in his coffin. 2. to cause someone to behave better
or to have a better attitude; to reform someone. ⬥ You
are terrible. Someone is going to have to straighten you
out! 3. to help someone become less confused about
something. ⬥ Can you straighten me out on this matter?
straighten something out† 1. to make something
straighter. ⬥ Please straighten out this line of people.
2. to bring order to something that is disorderly. ⬥ See
if you can straighten this mess out.
straighten up 1. to sit or stand more straight. ⬥ Billy’s
mother told him to straighten up or he’d fall out of his
chair. 2. to behave better. ⬥ Bill was acting badly for a
while; then he straightened up.
strap someone or something down† to tie or bind someone
or something down to something. ⬥ The nurses
strapped Gary down in preparation for the operation.
stretch out [for one] to extend and stretch one’s body
to its full length. ⬥ I need a bigger bed. I can’t stretch
out in this one.
stow away
202
stretch something out† (to someone or something) to reach
something out to someone or something. ⬥ Jeff
stretched his hand out to Tiffany.
strike out 1. Lit. [for a baseball batter] to be declared
out after making three strikes. (Baseball.) ⬥ And so
Drew Wilson strikes out for his second time in this game!
2. Fig. to fail. ⬥ Well, we struck out again, but we’ll keep
trying. ⬥ I hear you struck out on that Acme proposal.
Better luck next time.
strike someone or something down† to knock someone or
something down by striking. ⬥ Max struck Lefty down
with one blow.
strike something down† [for a court] to invalidate a ruling or law. ⬥ The higher court struck the ruling of the
lower court down.
strike something out† to cross something out of a section
of printing or writing. ⬥ This is wrong. Please strike it
out.
strike something up† to begin something; to cause something to begin. (Typically, the playing of a band, a conversation, or a friendship.) ⬥ We tried to strike a
conversation up—to no avail.
string someone along to maintain someone’s attention or
interest, probably insincerely. ⬥ You are just stringing
me along because you like to borrow my car. You are not
a real friend.
string someone up† to hang someone. ⬥ The sheriff swore
he would string Tex up whenever he caught him.
string something out† 1. Lit. to unwind, stretch, or
straighten something, such as wire, and extend it. ⬥
The workers strung the wires out before installing them.
2. Fig. to cause something to take more time than it
string something out
203
ought to. ⬥ Is there any good reason to string this meeting out any longer?
strip down to remove one’s clothing. ⬥ The doctor told
Joe to strip down for his examination.
stub something out† to put out something, such as a cigarette or cigar, by crushing the burning end against a
hard object. ⬥ Max stubbed his cigar out and tossed it
into the street.
stuff something up† to plug something by stuffing something in its opening. ⬥ He stuffed the hole up with old
newspapers.
suck someone in† and take someone in† to deceive someone. ⬥ I think that someone sucked in both of them. I
don’t know why they bought this car.
suck someone or something down† [for a vacuum or water
currents] to pull someone or something downward. ⬥
The savage currents sucked the swimmers down to their
death.
suck someone or something under [for a current or waves]
to pull someone or something beneath the surface of
the water. ⬥ The strong rip tide almost sucked me under!
⬥ It almost sucked our boat under.
suck something in† 1. Lit. to draw something into one’s
mouth by sucking. ⬥ She sucked the milk shake in so
hard she nearly collapsed the straw. 2. Fig. to draw in
one’s belly, gut, or stomach. ⬥ Suck that belly in!
suck something up† to pick something up by suction, as
with a vacuum cleaner, or through a straw. ⬥ Will this
vacuum suck all this dirt up?
strip down
204
suit (oneself) up to get into one’s uniform, especially an
athletic uniform. ⬥ The coach told the team to suit up
for the game by three o’clock.
sum (something) up† to give a summary of something. ⬥
I would like to sum this lecture up by listing the main
points I have covered. ⬥ It is time for me to sum up.
summon something up† to call forth particular qualities,
such as strength, courage, wisdom, etc. ⬥ She summoned her courage up and went into the room.
surge out (of something) to burst forth or gush out of
something or some place. ⬥ The water surged out of the
huge crack in the dam.
surge up to rush or gush upwards. ⬥ A spring of fresh
water surged up under the stone and flowed out on the
ground.
swab something down† to wash or scrub something, such
as the deck of a ship. ⬥ The sailors were told to swab the
deck down each day.
swab something out† to wash or wipe something out in
order to make it clean. ⬥ The doctor swabbed my ear out
carefully.
swallow someone or something up† 1. Lit. to eat or gobble
up someone or something. ⬥ The fairy-tale wolf threatened to swallow the pig up in one bite. 2. Fig. to engulf
or contain something. ⬥ The vast garage seemed to
swallow the cars up.
swallow something down† to swallow something. ⬥ Here,
take this pill and swallow it down.
sweat something off† Fig. to get rid of excess fat or weight
by exercising or taking a steam bath to produce sweat.
⬥ I think I can sweat a lot of this fat off.
sweat something off
205
sweat something out† 1. Lit. to get rid of something in
one’s body by sweating. ⬥ I have a bit of a cold, and I
am going to try to sweat it out. 2. Fig. to endure something unpleasant. ⬥ It was an ordeal, but I sweated it
out. 3. Fig. to endure suspense about something. ⬥ She
sweated the two-hour wait out until she heard the results
of her bar exams.
sweep along to glide along smoothly, as if flying. ⬥ The
fallen leaves blew up against the fence, swept along by a
strong wind.
sweep someone or something aside† to push or brush someone or something aside. ⬥ The guards swept the spectators aside as the king’s coach approached.
sweep someone or something away† to dispose of someone
or something by pushing or brushing away. ⬥ The
waves nearly swept us away.
sweep something down† to clean something by sweeping.
⬥ Please sweep this floor down whenever you make a
mess here.
sweat something out
206
sweep someone or something away
sweep something out† to clean something out by sweeping. ⬥ Someone has to sweep the garage out.
sweep something under the carpet 1. Lit. to hide dirt
by brushing it away under the edge of a carpet. ⬥ He
was in such a hurry with the cleaning that he just swept
the dirt under the carpet. 2. Fig. to hide or ignore something. ⬥ You made a mistake that you can’t sweep under
the carpet.
sweep something up† 1. Lit. to clean up and remove something, such as dirt, by sweeping. ⬥ Please sweep these
crumbs up. ⬥ Can you sweep up these crumbs? 2. Lit. to
clean up some place by sweeping. ⬥ Please sweep this
room up. 3. Fig. to arrange something, such as hair,
into a curve or wave. ⬥ The hairstylist swept her hair
up over the top. No one liked it.
sweep up to clean up by sweeping. ⬥ Please give me a
few minutes to sweep up before you come to visit.
sweeten someone up† to make someone more pleasant.
⬥ I had hoped that a week in the Caribbean would
sweeten him up.
sweeten something up† to make something taste sweeter.
⬥ Where is the sugar? I need to sweeten this up a little.
swell out to bulge outward; to expand outward. ⬥ The
west wall of the garage swelled out just before the building collapsed.
swell up to enlarge; to inflate; to bulge out. ⬥ I struck
my thumb with a hammer and it swelled up something
awful.
swirl around [for dust or a fluid] to circle around. ⬥ The
liquid swirled around in the flask as Toby shook it up.
swirl around
207
switch off 1. Lit. [for something] to turn itself off. ⬥ At
midnight, all the lights switched off automatically. 2. Fig.
[for someone] to stop paying attention; to become
oblivious to everything. ⬥ I got tired of listening and
switched off.
switch on 1. [for something] to turn itself on. ⬥ Exactly
at midnight, the lights switched on. ⬥ The radio switched
on early in the morning to wake us up. 2. Sl. [for someone] to become alert or excited. ⬥ The wild music made
all the kids switch on and start to dance.
switch someone or something off† to cause someone or
something to be quiet or stop doing something. ⬥ I got
tired of listening to her, so I punched the button and
switched her off.
switch something on† to close an electrical circuit that
causes something to start functioning or operating. ⬥
Please switch the fan on.
switch something out† to remove something from an electrical circuit to turn it off. ⬥ Please switch the light out.
⬥ I switched out the light.
switch off
208
tack something down† to fasten something down with
small nails. ⬥ Someone had better tack this carpet down.
tack something up† to fasten something onto something
with tacks. ⬥ The drapes started to fall, so we tacked
them up again.
tag someone out† [in baseball] to touch with the ball, and
thereby put someone out. ⬥ The shortstop tagged the
runner out and retired the side.
take off 1. Fig. to leave the ground and begin to fly. (As
with a bird or an airplane.) ⬥ When do we take off ? ⬥
The eagle took off and headed toward the mountains.
2. Fig. [for someone] to leave in a hurry. ⬥ She really
took off from there quickly. ⬥ I’ve got to take off—I’m
late. 3. Fig. [for something] to start selling well. ⬥ The
fluffy dog dolls began to take off, and we sold out the lot.
4. Fig. to become active and exciting. ⬥ Did the party
ever take off, or was it dull all night?
take someone apart† 1. Sl. to beat someone up. ⬥ Don’t
talk to me that way, or I’ll take you apart. 2. Inf. to criticize or defame someone or something. ⬥ They really
took me apart, but I just ignore bad reviews.
take someone around† to show someone the premises; to
introduce someone to the people on the premises. ⬥
Mr. Franklin needs a plant tour. Would you take him
around?
209
T
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
take someone aside† to remove someone temporarily
from the group for the purposes of discussing something privately. ⬥ I’m sorry he insulted you. I’ll take him
aside and talk to him about it.
take someone off† Sl. to kill someone. (Underworld.) ⬥
Barlowe didn’t want to have to take off Lefty, but he was
afraid he might talk.
take someone on 1. to enter into a fight or argument with
someone. ⬥ I pretended to agree because I really didn’t
want to take him on. 2. to employ someone. ⬥ I think
we could take you on as an assistant editor, but it doesn’t
pay very well.
take someone or an animal in† to provide shelter for someone or an animal. ⬥ When I needed a place to live, my
uncle took me in.
take someone or something down† to move someone or
something to a lower position or level. ⬥ The boss is
downstairs and wants to meet our visitor. Will you take
her down? ⬥ The way down to the lobby is confusing. Let
me take down our visitor.
take someone or something on† to accept the task of handling a difficult person or thing. ⬥ Nobody wanted to
take on Mrs. Franklin, but it had to be done.
take someone out† 1. to date someone. ⬥ I hope he’ll take
me out soon. ⬥ She wanted to take out her guest for the
evening. 2. to block out a player in football. ⬥ You take
Joe out and I’ll carry the ball. ⬥ Who was supposed to
take out that huge guy? 3. Sl. to kill someone. (Underworld.) ⬥ Mr. Gutman told Lefty to take Max out.
take someone up† to discuss or deal with someone. (See
also take something up.) ⬥ What are we going to do about
take someone aside
210
Bill? Are we going to take Bill up today at the board meeting?
take something apart† 1. Lit. to disassemble something.
⬥ Bobby took his bicycle apart. ⬥ You take apart everything that is mechanical. 2. Fig. to damage or ruin
something. ⬥ The wreck took both cars apart. ⬥ The
high wind took apart the roof and the fence. 3. Fig. to
criticize something severely. ⬥ The critic took the play
apart.
take something back† to retract a statement; to rescind
one’s remark. ⬥ You had better take back what you said
about my sister.
take something down† 1. to take some large or complicated things apart. ⬥ They plan to take all these buildings down and turn the land into a park. 2. to write
something down in something. ⬥ Please take these figures down in your notebook.
take something in† 1. to reduce the size of a garment. ⬥
This is too big. I’ll have to take it in around the waist.
2. to view and study something; to attend something
involving viewing. ⬥ The mountains are so beautiful! I
need an hour or so to take it all in. ⬥ I want to sit here
a minute and take in the view. ⬥ Would you like to take
in a movie? 3. to receive money as payment or proceeds. ⬥ How much did we take in today? ⬥ The box
office took nearly a thousand dollars in within just the
last hour. 4. to receive something into the mind, usually visually. ⬥ Could you take those explanations in? I
couldn’t. ⬥ I could hardly take in everything she said.
5. to inhale, drink, or eat something. ⬥ I think I’ll go
for a walk and take some fresh air in.
take something in
211
take something off† to remove something, such as an article of clothing. ⬥ Please take your coat off and stay a
while.
take something out† 1. Lit. to carry something outside. ⬥
Please take the trash out. ⬥ I’ll take out the trash. 2. Inf.
to bomb or destroy something. ⬥ The enemy took out
one of the trucks, but not the one carrying the medicine.
take something over† 1. to assume responsibility for a task.
⬥ It looks as if I’m going to have to take the project over.
⬥ I will take over the project. 2. to acquire all of an
asset; [for a company] to acquire another company. ⬥
Carl set out to take the failing airline over. 3. to take
control of something. ⬥ The dictator hoped to take over
the world little by little.
take something up† 1. [for someone or a group] to deliberate something. ⬥ When will the board of directors take
this up? 2. to raise something, such as the height of a
hem. ⬥ The skirt is too long. I’ll have to take it up. 3. to
continue with something after an interruption. ⬥ They
took it up where they left off. ⬥ Let’s take up this matter
at the point we were at when we were interrupted. 4. to
begin something; to start to acquire a skill in something. ⬥ When did you take this hobby up? ⬥ I took up
skiing last fall. 5. to absorb something. ⬥ This old
sponge doesn’t take much water up. 6. to adopt something new. ⬥ I see you’ve taken a new lifestyle up.
take the slack up† 1. Lit. to tighten a rope that is holding something loosely. ⬥ Take the slack up if you can.
⬥ This clothesline is too loose. Do something to take up
the slack. 2. Fig. to do what needs to be done; to do
what has been left undone. ⬥ Do I have to take the slack
up?
take something off
212
talk someone down† 1. to win at debating someone. ⬥ Liz
was able to talk her opponent down. ⬥ She talked down
her opponent. 2. to direct a novice pilot to make a safe
landing by giving spoken instructions over the airplane’s radio. ⬥ The people on the ground talked down
the amateur pilot successfully. 3. to convince someone
to lower the price of something. ⬥ The price tag said
$2,000 for the car, but I talked down the salesman by
threatening to go elsewhere.
talk someone or something over† (with someone) to discuss
someone or something with someone. ⬥ I want to talk
John over with my staff. ⬥ I will talk over this matter
with Sam.
talk someone or something up† to promote or speak in support of someone or something. ⬥ I’ve been talking the
party up all day, trying to get people to come. ⬥ They
keep talking up the candidate as if he represented a real
change.
talk something out† to settle something by discussion. ⬥
Let’s not get mad. Let’s just talk it out.
talk something over† to discuss something. ⬥ Come into
my office so we can talk this over.
talk something through† 1. to discuss something in detail.
⬥ Let’s talk the issue through and get it decided. 2. to
get something approved by talking convincingly. ⬥ The
board was reluctant to approve it, but I talked it through.
talk something up† to promote or advertise something by
saying good things about it to as many people as possible. ⬥ Let’s talk the play up around campus so we can
get a good audience.
tally something up† to add something up. ⬥ Please tally
everything up and tell me the total.
tally something up
213
tamp something down† to pat or pack something down.
⬥ Tamp the soil down over the seeds after you plant
them.
tear along to go along very fast, as in running, driving,
cycling, etc. ⬥ The cars tore along the road, raising dust
and making noise.
tear someone apart† 1. Lit. to rip someone apart savagely.
(See also tear something apart.) ⬥ Max threatened to tear
Tom apart. 2. Fig. to cause two people, presumably
lovers, to separate unwillingly. ⬥ The enormous disruption of the accident tore them apart and they separated. ⬥ The bickering between their parents finally tore
apart the engaged couple. 3. Fig. to cause someone enormous grief or emotional pain. ⬥ The death of her dog
tore her apart. 4. Fig. to criticize someone mercilessly.
⬥ The critic tore apart the entire cast of the play.
tear someone or something down† to criticize or degrade
someone or something. ⬥ Tom is always tearing Jane
tamp something down
214
tear someone apart (sense 2)
down. I guess he doesn’t like her. ⬥ It’s not nice to tear
down the people who work in your office.
tear someone up† Fig. to cause someone much grief. (See
also tear someone apart.) ⬥ The news of Tom’s death really
tore Bill up.
tear something apart† 1. to pull or rip something apart.
(See also tear someone apart.) ⬥ The bear tore the tent
apart. ⬥ The lions tore apart the wildebeest in minutes,
and began eating it. 2. to criticize something mercilessly. ⬥ The critic tore apart the entire cast of the play.
3. to divide something or the members of a group, citizens of a country, etc. ⬥ The financial crisis tore the
club apart.
tear something down† to dismantle or destroy something.
⬥ They plan to tear the old building down and build a
new one there.
tear something up† to rip someone or something to pieces.
⬥ The two drunks tore the bar up in their brawling.
tease something out† Fig. to separate threads or hairs by
combing. ⬥ The hairdresser teased Jill’s hair out carefully.
tee off 1. Lit. to start the first hole in a game of golf. ⬥
It’s time to tee off. Let’s get on the course. ⬥ What time
do we tee off ? 2. Fig. to begin [doing anything]; to be
the first one to start something. ⬥ The master of ceremonies teed off with a few jokes and then introduced the
first act.
tell someone off† to scold someone; to attack someone
verbally. (This has a sense of finality about it.) ⬥ I was
so mad at Bob that I told him off.
tell someone off
215
test something out† to try something out; to test something to see if it works. ⬥ I can’t wait to test my new
laptop out.
thaw out to warm up from being frozen. ⬥ How long will
it take for the chicken to thaw out?
thaw someone or something out† to raise the temperature of
someone or something above freezing; to warm someone up. ⬥ We need to get inside so I can thaw my brother
out. His toes are almost frozen.
thicken something up† 1. to make something, such as a
fluid, thicker. ⬥ I have to thicken this gravy up before
we can serve dinner. 2. to make something wider. ⬥ See
this line here? You need to thicken it up so that it shows
more clearly.
thin down to become thinner or slimmer. ⬥ He stopped
eating desserts and fatty foods so he could thin down.
thin someone down† to make someone thinner or slimmer. ⬥ What you need to thin you down is less, not more.
thin something down† to dilute a fluid. ⬥ You should thin
this down with a little water. ⬥ Try to thin down this
paint a little.
thin something out† to make something less dense; to scatter something. ⬥ You will have to thin the young plants
out, because there is not room for all of them.
think something out† to think through something; to prepare a plan or scheme. ⬥ This is an interesting problem.
I’ll have to take some time and think it out.
think something over† to think about something and
whether one will choose to do it. ⬥ I need a few minutes to think it over.
test something out
216
think something through† to run over and try to settle
something in one’s mind. ⬥ Let me think this through
and call you in the morning.
think something up† to contrive or invent something. ⬥
Don’t worry. I’ll find a way to do it. I can think something up in time to get it done.
thrash something out† Fig. to discuss something thoroughly and solve any problems. ⬥ The committee took
hours to thrash the whole matter out.
throw someone off to interrupt and confuse someone; to
mislead someone. ⬥ The interruption threw me off, and
I lost my place in the speech. ⬥ Little noises throw me off.
Please try to be quiet.
throw someone or something around† to toss or cast someone or something around. ⬥ The belligerent fellow at the
bar threatened to throw me around a little if I didn’t get
out of his way.
throw someone or something aside† 1. Lit. to cast someone
or something to the side. ⬥ He threw his child aside just
as the car was about to run him down. 2. Fig. to get rid
of someone or something. ⬥ He threw his wife aside
and took up with a younger woman.
throw someone over to end a romance with someone. ⬥
Jane threw Bill over. I think she met someone she likes
better.
throw something away† to toss something out; to dispose
of something. ⬥ Should I throw this away?
throw something away† on someone or something to waste
something on someone or something. ⬥ I won’t throw
any more money away on your brother-in-law.
throw something away on someone or something
217
throw something back† Sl. to eat or drink something
quickly. ⬥ He threw a beer back and got up and left.
throw something down† to cast something down onto the
ground; to cast something to a lower level. ⬥ Dave took
one look at the box and threw it down.
throw something up† 1. to build or erect something in a
hurry. ⬥ They sure threw that building up in a hurry.
2. to vomit something. ⬥ He threw up his dinner.
throw up to vomit. ⬥ I was afraid I would throw up, the
food was so horrible.
thrust out to stick out; to stab outward; to protrude outward. ⬥ A deck thrust out from the back of the house,
offering a lovely view of the stream far below.
thrust someone or something aside† to push someone or
something out of the way or to one side. ⬥ Walter thrust
Fred aside and dashed by him into the room.
thrust something down† to jab something downward. ⬥
Max thrust the knife down and speared a piece of chicken.
tidy something up† to clean something up; to make something more orderly. ⬥ Please tidy this room up.
tie someone or something up† 1. Lit. to bind someone or
something securely. ⬥ The sheriff tied the crooks up and
took them to a cell. ⬥ I tied the package up and put a
label on it. 2. Fig. to keep someone or something busy
or occupied. ⬥ Sally tied up the photocopy machine all
afternoon.
tie something back† to bind or fasten something back out
of the way. ⬥ George tied the curtains back to let a little more light in.
tie something off† to tie the ends of something losing fluid,
as blood vessels to prevent bleeding. ⬥ The surgeons
throw something back
218
tied all the blood vessels off—one by one—as they were
exposed.
tie something up† 1. Lit. to tie strings or cords on something in order to close or contain it. ⬥ Please tie this
package up securely so I can mail it. ⬥ Tie up your shoes!
2. Fig. to conclude and finalize something. ⬥ Let’s try
to tie up this deal by Thursday. 3. Fig. to block or
impede something, such as traffic or progress. ⬥ The
stalled bus tied traffic up for over an hour.
tie traffic up† Fig. to cause road traffic to stop. ⬥ If you
tie traffic up for too long, you’ll get a traffic ticket.
tighten something up† to make something tighter. ⬥
Tighten your seat belt up. It looks loose.
tighten up 1. Lit. [for something] to get tighter. ⬥ The
door hinges began to tighten up, making the door hard
to open and close. 2. Fig. [for someone or a group] to
become miserly. ⬥ The government tightened up and
our budget was slashed. ⬥ We almost went out of business when we couldn’t get credit because the bank tightened up. 3. Fig. [for someone or something] to become
more restrictive. ⬥ The boss is tightening up on new hiring.
tilt something back† to move something so it leans back.
⬥ Alice tilted her chair back and nearly fell over.
time someone in† to record someone’s arrival time. ⬥
I timed you in at noon. Where were you?
time someone out† to record someone’s departure time.
⬥ Harry had to time everyone out because the time clock
was broken.
tip someone over to cause someone to fall. ⬥ Oh! You
almost tipped me over!
tip someone over
219
tip something over† to cause something to fall over. ⬥ Did
you tip this chair over?
tip something up† to tilt something so it dumps. ⬥ Jason
tipped the wheelbarrow up and dumped the dirt out.
tire someone out† to exhaust someone. ⬥ Too much work
will tire out the horses.
toddle along 1. to walk along in an unconcerned manner. ⬥ Kathleen was just toddling along, minding her
own business. 2. to walk away. ⬥ Why don’t you toddle
along now and let me get some work done?
toddle away and toddle off to walk away. ⬥ Not even
noticing what had happened, the old lady got up and toddled away. ⬥ Sam toddled away, leaving us behind to
explain things to the boss. ⬥ Wally toddled off, leaving
his dinner untouched. ⬥ Don’t just toddle off when I’m
talking to you!
tone someone or something up† to make someone or something stronger or more fit, muscularly. ⬥ I suggested an
exercise that would tone him up and make him feel better. ⬥ The exercises toned up his tummy muscles.
tone something down† to cause something to have less of
an impact on the senses of sight or sound; to lessen the
impact of something prepared for public performance
or consumption. ⬥ This is rather shocking. You had better tone it down a bit.
tool up to become equipped with tools. ⬥ The factory
tooled up to make the new cars in only two weeks.
tool something up† to equip a factory or production line
with particular tools and machines, as for new products. ⬥ The manager closed down the factory so she could
tool it up for the new models.
tip something over
220
top something off† to add to the difficulty of something.
⬥ I had a bad day, and to top it off, I have to go to a
meeting tonight.
topple over [for something very tall] to fall over. ⬥ I was
afraid that Jimmy’s stack of blocks would topple over.
toss someone or something around† to throw someone or
something around. ⬥ The waves tossed him around and
almost dashed him on the rocks.
toss someone or something aside† to throw someone or
something aside or out of the way. ⬥ The kidnapper
tossed the child aside and reached for his gun. ⬥ The soldier tossed aside the helpless civilian and ran into the
house.
toss someone or something away† to throw someone or
something away; to discard someone or something. ⬥
You can’t just toss me away! I’m your husband! ⬥ She
tossed away her husband of twenty years.
toss someone or something back† 1. to throw or force someone or something backward. ⬥ The blast tossed me back
into the room. ⬥ The blast tossed back the emergency
personnel. 2. to throw someone or something back to
where someone or something came from. ⬥ My father
always threatened to toss me back where I came from,
the way a fish is returned to the water.
toss something around† Fig. to discuss something. ⬥
I have a few things to discuss. Can we meet later and toss
them around?
toss something off† 1. Lit. to throw something off (of oneself ). ⬥ Tom tossed off his jacket and sat down to watch
television. 2. Fig. to ignore or resist the bad effects of
something. ⬥ John insulted Bob, but Bob just tossed it
off. ⬥ If I couldn’t toss off insults, I’d be miserable. 3. Fig.
toss something off
221
to produce something easily or quickly. ⬥ I tossed that
article off in only an hour. ⬥ Joe just tossed off a few
words and left the room. 4. Fig. to drink a drink very
quickly. ⬥ He tossed a few beers off and left.
total something up† to add up the total of something. ⬥
Please total the bill up and let me see the cost. ⬥ Total
up the bill and give it to me.
touch someone or something off† Fig. to ignite or excite
someone or something; to excite anger or chaos. ⬥ She
is very excitable. The slightest thing will touch her off. ⬥
The appearance of the fox touched off a furor in the henhouse.
touch something up† to fix up the minor flaws in something; to repair a paint job on something. ⬥ It’s only a
little scratch in the finish. We can touch it up easily.
toughen someone or something up† to cause someone or
something to be stronger, more uncompromising, or
more severe. ⬥ A few days behind the service counter at
the discount store will toughen her up quickly. ⬥ Having
to deal with complaints toughened up the clerk quickly.
toughen up to become tougher, stronger, or more severe.
⬥ She will toughen up after a while. You have to be tough
around here to survive.
tow someone or something away† to pull something, such
as a car or a boat, away with another car, boat, etc. (The
someone refers to the property of someone, not the person.) ⬥ If I don’t get back to my car, they will tow me
away. ⬥ The truck towed away my car.
towel someone or something down† to rub someone or
something dry with a towel. ⬥ The mother toweled her
child down and dressed her in clean clothes. ⬥ She toweled down the child gently.
total something up
222
towel someone or something off† to dry someone or something with a towel. ⬥ The young mother toweled the
baby off with a soft, warm towel.
track something up† to mess something up by spreading
around something dirty or messy with one’s shoes or
feet. ⬥ Please don’t track the floor up!
trade something off† 1. Lit. to get rid of something in an
exchange. ⬥ I traded my car off. ⬥ I traded off my old
car for a new one. 2. Fig. to sacrifice something in an
exchange. ⬥ You may end up trading job security off for
more money.
trample someone or something down† to crush down someone or something with the feet. ⬥ Stay out of crowds at
rock concerts. Those kids will trample you down if they
get excited.
trickle away [for a liquid] to seep or dribble away. ⬥ All
the water trickled away down the drain.
trigger someone off† to cause someone to become angry.
⬥ Your rude comments triggered her off. ⬥ Your comments triggered off Bob’s temper.
trigger something off† to set something off, such as an
explosion. ⬥ We were afraid that the sparks from the
engine would trigger an explosion off. ⬥ The sparks triggered off an explosion.
trim (oneself) down to take action to become slimmer or
lose weight. ⬥ I need to trim myself down before I go on
vacation. ⬥ I decided to trim down, but I never got
around to it.
trim something away† (from something) to cut something
away (from something). ⬥ The butcher trimmed the fat
away from the steak.
trim something away (from something)
223
trim something down† to reduce the size of something. ⬥
You will have to trim the picture down to get it into the
frame.
trip someone up† 1. Lit. to cause someone to trip; to entangle someone’s feet. (Someone includes oneself.) ⬥ The
lines tripped up the crew. 2. Fig. to cause someone to
falter while speaking, thinking, etc. ⬥ Mary came in
while the speaker was talking and the distraction tripped
him up.
trot something out† Fig. to mention something regularly
or habitually, without giving it much thought. (Fig. on
the image of trotting out a pony for display.) ⬥ When
James disagreed with Mary, she simply trotted her same
old political arguments out.
true something up† to straighten something up; to put
something into true plumb. ⬥ Please true this door
frame up better before you hang the door.
trump something up† 1. to promote or boost something.
⬥ They think they have to trump something up to get
people to see it. ⬥ They trumped up the movie so much
that many people were disappointed when it finally came
out. 2. to think something up; to contrive something.
⬥ Do you just sit around trumping charges up against
innocent people?
truss someone or something up† to bind, tie, or bundle someone or something up. ⬥ The attendants trussed Walter
up and took him to a padded cell. ⬥ They trussed up
Walter tightly.
try someone or something out† to test someone or something
for a while; to sample the performance of someone or
something. ⬥ We will try her out in the editorial department and see how she does.
trim something down
224
try something out† on someone to see how someone
responds to something or some idea. ⬥ Let me try this
idea out on you and see what you think.
tuck something away† 1. Lit. to hide or store something
away. ⬥ Tuck this away where you can find it later. ⬥
Can you tuck away this money somewhere? 2. Fig. to eat
something. ⬥ The boys tucked away three pizzas and an
apple pie.
tuck something up† to raise up some part of one’s clothing and attach it temporarily. ⬥ She tucked her skirt up
and waded through the flooded basement.
tucker someone out to tire someone out. ⬥ The heavy
work tuckered the staff out early in the day.
tumble down to fall down; to topple. ⬥ The old barn was
so rickety that it almost tumbled down on its own.
tune out Fig. to cease paying attention to anything at all.
⬥ I think that most of the audience tuned out during the
last part of the lecture.
tune someone or something out† to put someone or something out of one’s consciousness; to cease paying attention to someone or something. ⬥ I had to tune the radio
out in order to concentrate.
tune something in† to adjust a radio or television set so
that something can be received. ⬥ Could you tune the
newscast in?
tune something up† Fig. to adjust an engine to run the best
and most efficiently. ⬥ You need to tune this engine up.
⬥ Please tune up this engine so it will run more economically.
tune something up
225
tune up [for one or more musicians] to bring their
instruments into tune. ⬥ You could hear the orchestra
behind the curtain, tuning up.
turn in 1. [for something] to fold or point inward. ⬥ Do
my toes turn in too much? ⬥ The legs of the table turned
in at the bottom, giving a quaint appearance to the piece
of furniture. 2. [for someone] to go to bed. ⬥ It’s time
to turn in. Good night. ⬥ I want to turn in early tonight.
turn off [for something] to go off; to switch off. ⬥ All
the lights turn off automatically.
turn on 1. Lit. [for something] to switch on and start
running. ⬥ The lights turned on right at dusk. 2. Fig. to
become interested or excited. ⬥ He turns on when he
sees the mountains.
turn over 1. Lit. to rotate so that the side that was on the
bottom is now on top. ⬥ The turtle turned over and
crawled away. ⬥ She turned over to get some sun on her
back. 2. and kick over Fig. [for an engine] to start or
to rotate. ⬥ My car engine was so cold that it wouldn’t
even turn over. ⬥ The engine kicked over a few times
and then stopped for good. 3. Fig. to undergo exchange;
to be replaced. ⬥ The employees turn over pretty regularly in this department.
turn someone aside† to divert someone from the flow of
people. ⬥ The attendant turned aside all the persons
who arrived late.
turn someone down† to issue a refusal to someone. ⬥ We
had to turn Joan down, even though her proposal was
okay.
turn someone off† to dull someone’s interest in someone
or something. ⬥ The boring prof turned me off to the
subject. ⬥ The preacher set out to turn off the congregation to sin.
tune up
226
turn someone on† to excite or interest someone. ⬥ Fast
music with a good beat turns me on. ⬥ That stuff doesn’t
turn on anyone.
turn someone out† 1. Lit. to send someone out of somewhere. ⬥ I’m glad it’s not winter. I’d hate to turn out
someone in the snow. 2. Fig. to train or produce someone with certain skills or talents. ⬥ A committee accused
the state university of turning out too many veterinarians.
turn someone or something back† to cause someone or
something to stop and go back; to cause someone
or something to retreat. ⬥ They turned back the bus
because the bridge was down.
turn someone or something in† (to someone or something) to
submit or refer someone or something to someone or
a group, especially in some official capacity. ⬥ The good
citizen turned his neighbor in for watering his lawn during the wrong hours.
turn someone or something over† to someone or something to
release or assign someone or something to someone or
something; to transfer or deliver someone or something
to someone or something. ⬥ The deputy turned the
bank robber over to the sheriff. ⬥ I turned over the money
I found to the police.
turn someone or something up† 1. Lit. to increase the volume of a device emitting the sound of someone or
something. ⬥ I can’t hear the lecturer. Turn her up. ⬥
Turn up the radio, please. 2. Fig. to discover or locate
someone or something. ⬥ See if you can turn up any
evidence for his presence on the night of January 16. ⬥
Have you been able to turn up a date for Friday night?
turn something down† 1. to bend or fold something down.
⬥ Timmy had turned down his cuffs and caught one of
them in his bicycle chain. 2. to decrease the volume of
turn something down
227
something. ⬥ Please turn the radio down. 3. to reject
something; to deny someone’s request. ⬥ The board
turned our request down.
turn something off† to switch something off so that it stops
running or operating. ⬥ Please turn the light off.
turn something on† to switch on something to make it run.
⬥ I turned the microwave oven on and cooked dinner.
turn something out† 1. to manufacture or produce something in numbers. ⬥ The factory turns out about
seventy-five cars a day. 2. to turn off a light. ⬥ Please
turn the hall light out.
turn something up† 1. to bend or fold something up. (See
also turn up.) ⬥ Please turn your cuffs up. They are getting muddy. 2. to turn playing cards face-up. ⬥ Please
turn all the cards up.
turn up 1. [for part of something] to point upward. ⬥
The ends of the elf ’s funny little shoes turned up. 2. Fig.
to happen. ⬥ Something always turns up to prevent their
meeting. 3. Fig. to appear; to arrive and attend. ⬥ We’ll
send out invitations and see who turns up.
twist up 1. to move upward in a twisting path. ⬥ The
smoke twisted up into the sky. ⬥ As the car twisted up
the narrow path, we got a good view of the valley. 2. to
become twisted.
type something out† to make some information presentable by typing or keying it. ⬥ Please type this out
before you submit it to the board for approval.
type something up† to type a handwritten document; to
type a document, perhaps using a computer. ⬥ I will
give this to you as soon as I type it up.
turn something off
228
urge someone along to encourage someone to continue
or go faster. ⬥ We urged them along with much encouragement.
urge someone forward to encourage someone to move
forward. ⬥ The generals urged the troops forward.
use someone up Fig. to use all the effort or talent a person has. ⬥ I used myself up. I’m done. I can’t function
anymore.
use something up† to consume or use all of something. ⬥
Use the flour up. I have more in the cupboard.
usher someone or something into some place and usher someone or something in† to escort or lead a person, a group,
or something into a place. ⬥ The guard ushered the
group into the palace.
usher someone or something out of some place and usher
someone or something out† to escort or lead someone or
a group out of a place. ⬥ We ushered them from the
room.
229
U
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
vacuum something out† to clean an enclosed area out with
a vacuum cleaner. ⬥ Can you vacuum out the car?
vacuum something up† (from something) to clean something up from something with a vacuum cleaner. ⬥ He
vacuumed up the birdseed from the kitchen floor.
venture forth 1. Fig. to set out; to go forward; to go out
cautiously. ⬥ George ventured forth into the night. ⬥
I think I will venture forth. It looks safe. 2. Fig. to go
forth bravely. ⬥ Let us venture forth and conquer the
enemy.
vomit something out† Fig. [for something] to spill forth a
great deal of something. ⬥ The volcano vomited the lava
out for days.
vote someone or something down† to defeat someone or
something in an election. ⬥ The community voted the
proposal down.
vote something through† to get something through a set
of procedures by voting in favor of it. ⬥ They were not
able to vote the bill through.
230
V
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
wait something out† to wait until something ends. ⬥ I will
wait the summer out, and if nothing happens, I’ll write
again.
wake someone or an animal up† to cause someone or an animal to awaken. ⬥ Please don’t wake me up until noon.
wake up to awaken; to become alert. ⬥ Wake up! We
have to get on the road.
walk along to move along on foot. ⬥ I was just walking
along when my heel broke off.
walk off to walk away; to leave on foot abruptly. ⬥ She
didn’t even say good-bye. She just walked off.
wall someone or something in† to contain someone or something behind or within a wall. (Implies a constriction
of space, but not necessarily an inescapable area.) ⬥
The count walled his prisoner in permanently. ⬥ Jane
decided to wall in the little garden at the side of the house.
wall someone or something off† to separate or segregate
someone or something by building a wall. ⬥ She sat
right across from me at her desk, listening to every phone
call I made. Finally, the manager walled her off so we
now can carry on our business in privacy.
wall something up† 1. to seal something up behind a wall.
⬥ We simply walled the old furnace up. It was cheaper
than removing it. 2. to fill up an opening, such as a
231
W
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
window or door, by building a wall. ⬥ We will have to
hire someone to wall the doorway up.
want someone or something back to desire the return of
someone or something. ⬥ Timmy wanted his mother
back very badly.
warm someone or something up† to make someone or something warmer; to take the chill out of or off of someone
or something. ⬥ I put him by the fire to warm him up
a little. ⬥ We warmed up our feet before the fire.
warm someone up† 1. to make someone warmer. ⬥ Stand
by the fire and warm yourself up. 2. Fig. to help someone get physically prepared to perform in an athletic
event. (As if exercising or loosening up someone’s muscles.) ⬥ The referee told the coach to warm his team up
so the game could begin. ⬥ You have to warm up the
team before a game. ⬥ Be sure to warm yourself up before
playing. 3. Fig. to prepare an audience for another—
more famous—performer. (Fig. on W.) ⬥ A singer
came out to warm us up for the main attraction.
warm up 1. [for the weather or a person] to become
warmer or hotter. ⬥ I think it is going to warm up next
week. 2. Fig. [for someone] to become more friendly.
(A warm person is a friendly person.) ⬥ Todd began to
warm up halfway through the conference. 3. and warm
up for something Fig. to prepare for some kind of performance or competition. ⬥ The team had to warm up
before the game.
warm something over† 1. to reheat food to serve it as leftovers. ⬥ I’ll just warm the rest over for lunch tomorrow.
⬥ Jane warmed over yesterday’s turkey. 2. Fig. to bring
up a matter that was thought to have been settled. (Fig.
on Q.) ⬥ Please don’t warm that business over again. It
is settled and should remain that way.
want someone or something back
232
warn someone off† to advise a person to stay away. ⬥ We
placed a guard outside the door to warn people off until
the gas leak could be fixed.
wash away to be carried away by water or some other
liquid. ⬥ The bridge washed away in the flood.
wash out 1. Inf. to fail and be removed from something,
such as school. ⬥ I don’t want to wash out. It’s my whole
future. 2. Inf. to have a serious wreck. ⬥ The little car
washed out on the curve. ⬥ The vehicles have a tendency
to wash out when cornering. 3. Inf. to lose a large
amount of money. ⬥ Fred washed out on that stock deal.
⬥ Lefty and Willie washed out at the racetrack. 4. Inf.
to break down or collapse from exhaustion. ⬥ The
whole play began to wash out during the second act. It
was a lost cause by the third.
wash someone or something away† [for a flood of water] to
carry someone or something away. ⬥ The flood washed
the boats away.
wash someone or something off† to clean someone or something by washing. ⬥ She washed the muddy children off
with a hose and put their clothes right into the washing
machine.
wash someone or something up† 1. to clean up someone or
something by washing. ⬥ Please wash the baby up as
long as you are changing the diaper. ⬥ Sam will wash
himself up before dinner. 2. [for water or the waves] to
bring someone or something up onto the shore or
beach. ⬥ Look what the waves washed up! A bottle with
a note in it!
wash someone out† Fig. to deplete the strength or vitality of someone. ⬥ The flu really washed me out. ⬥ The
disease washed out the whole class.
wash someone out
233
wash someone up† to terminate someone in something.
⬥ This error is going to wash you up as an account executive. ⬥ Problems like this have washed up quite a few
careers.
wash something away† to clean something by scrubbing
and flushing away the dirt. ⬥ Fresh water will wash the
seawater away.
wash something out† 1. to wash out the inside of something; to wash something made of fabric. ⬥ I have to
wash my socks out tonight. ⬥ Wash the pitcher out before
you put it away. 2. Fig. to rain on or flood an event so
that it must be canceled. (Fig. on Q.) ⬥ Rain washed
the game out. ⬥ The storm washed out the picnic. 3. to
wash or erode something out or away. ⬥ The flood
washed the new bushes out.
waste something away† to use something up wastefully;
to dissipate something. ⬥ He wasted all his money away
and had to live in poverty.
water something down† 1. to dilute something. ⬥ Who
watered the orange juice down? ⬥ Jim watered down the
orange juice. 2. to water something thoroughly. ⬥ Water
down the lawn this evening so it will grow tomorrow.
3. Fig. to reduce the effectiveness or force of something. (Fig. on Q.) ⬥ Please don’t water my declaration
down.
wave someone or something aside† to make a signal with the
hand for someone or something to move aside. ⬥ The
police officer waved us aside and would not let us turn
into our street. ⬥ The officer waved aside the spectators.
wave someone or something off† to make a signal with the
hand for someone or something to remain at a distance.
⬥ There was someone standing in front of the bridge,
waving everyone off. The bridge must have collapsed.
wash someone up
234
wave someone or something on† to make a signal with the
hand for someone or something to move on or keep
moving. ⬥ The traffic cop waved us on.
wave something around† to raise something up and move
it around so that everyone can see it. ⬥ When Ruth
found the money, she waved it around so everyone could
see it.
wear down Fig. to break down with wear; to erode. ⬥
The steps had worn down so much that each one was
curved and slanted dangerously.
wear off [for the effects of something] to become less;
to stop gradually. ⬥ The effects of the painkiller wore off
and my tooth began to hurt.
wear out to become worn from use; to become diminished or useless from use. ⬥ My car engine is about to
wear out.
wear someone down† 1. Fig. to exhaust someone. ⬥ This
hot weather wears me down. ⬥ The steamy weather wore
down the tourists and made them stay in their hotels.
2. Fig. to reduce someone to submission or agreement
by constant badgering. ⬥ Finally they wore me down
and I told them what they wanted to know.
wear someone out† Fig. to exhaust someone; to make
someone tired. ⬥ If he wears out everybody on the team,
nobody will be left to play in the game.
wear something away† to erode something. ⬥ The constant
rains wore the side of the cathedral away.
wear something down† to grind something away; to erode
something. ⬥ The constant rubbing of the door wore the
carpet down.
wear something down
235
wear something out† to make something worthless or nonfunctional from use. ⬥ I wore my shoes out in no time
at all.
weed someone or something out† Fig. to remove someone
or something unwanted or undesirable from a group or
collection. (Fig. on removing weeds from the soil.) ⬥
We had to weed the less productive workers out one by
one. ⬥ The auditions were held to weed out the actors
with the least ability.
weigh someone down† Fig. [for a thought] to worry or
depress someone. ⬥ All these problems really weigh me
down.
weigh someone or something down† to burden someone or
something. ⬥ The heavy burden weighed the poor donkey down.
wet someone or something down† to put water onto someone or something. ⬥ Mother wet the children down with
wear something out
236
weigh someone down
a hose while she was washing the car. ⬥ Karen wet down
the children with the hose.
whack something off† 1. Sl. to complete something easily
or quickly. ⬥ If you want a pair of these, I can whack
them off for you in a few minutes. ⬥ The artisan whacked
off a set of the earrings in a few minutes. 2. Sl. to cut or
chop something off. ⬥ A tree branch is rubbing against
the house. I guess I’ll go out and whack that branch off.
whack something up† Sl. to chop something up. ⬥ In about
an hour, he had whacked the tree up into small logs.
wheel someone or something off† to push or steer someone
or something on wheels some distance away. ⬥ The
nurse wheeled the old man off. ⬥ Karen wheeled off the
patient.
whip around 1. to reverse suddenly. (As with the tip of
a whip.) ⬥ A branch whipped around and tore my shirt.
2. to turn around very quickly and suddenly. ⬥ John
whipped around when he heard the noise.
whip someone or something around† to cause someone or
something to reverse direction quickly. ⬥ The roller
coaster whipped around the riders, right and left, until
they were almost sick.
whip something off† 1. Inf. to do or create something
quickly. ⬥ If you need another receipt, I can whip one
off in a jiffy. 2. Inf. to remove something, such as an
item of clothing, quickly. ⬥ He whipped the coat off and
dived into the water.
whip something out† 1. Inf. to complete making or working on something quickly. ⬥ I think I can whip one out
for you very quickly. ⬥ The factory whips out twenty of
these every minute. 2. Inf. to jerk something out [of
some place]. ⬥ Liz whipped a pencil out of her pocket.
whip something out
237
whip something up† to prepare, create, or put something
together. ⬥ I haven’t written my report yet, but I’ll whip
one up before the deadline. ⬥ I will whip up the most
beautiful arrangement you have ever seen.
will something away† to give something away in a will. ⬥
The old man simply willed all his money away. He said
he wouldn’t need it when he was dead.
win someone over† (to something) to succeed in making
someone favorable to something. ⬥ I hope I can win
them all over to our side.
wind around someone or something to twist or coil around
someone or something. ⬥ The python wound around
the rabbit, suffocating it.
wind down to start running or operating slower. ⬥
Things will begin to wind down at the end of the summer. ⬥ As things wind down, life will be a lot easier.
wind someone up 1. Inf. Fig. to get someone excited. ⬥
That kind of music really winds me up! 2. Inf. Fig. to get
someone set to do a lot of talking. (Fig. on winding up
a clock.) ⬥ The excitement of the day wound Kelly up
and she talked almost all night.
wind something down† to slow something down; to make
something less hectic. ⬥ Let’s wind this party down and
try to get people to go home. It’s really late.
wind something up† 1. Lit. to tighten the spring in something, such as a watch or a clock. ⬥ Wind up your watch
before you forget. 2. Fig. to conclude something. ⬥
Today we’ll wind that deal up with the bank.
wipe out 1. Inf. to crash. ⬥ I wiped out on the curve. ⬥
The car wiped out on the curve. 2. Inf. to fall off or away
from something, such as a bicycle, skates, a surfboard,
a skateboard, etc. ⬥ If I wipe out again, my mother says
whip something up
238
I’m through. 3. Inf. to fail badly. ⬥ The test was terrible! I’m sure I wiped out.
wipe someone out† 1. Sl. to kill someone. ⬥ Max intended
to wipe Lefty’s gang out. ⬥ Lefty wiped out Max’s gang.
2. Sl. to exhaust or debilitate someone. ⬥ The trip
wiped out the hikers. 3. Inf. to ruin someone financially.
⬥ The loss of my job wiped us out.
wipe something away† to clean or mop something away.
⬥ Wipe all this mud away and scrub the floor clean.
wipe something down† to rub or mop something down.
⬥ Wipe the counter down and keep it clean!
wipe something off† 1. to remove something (from something else) by wiping or rubbing. ⬥ There is mud on
your shirt. Please wipe it off. 2. to tidy or clean something by wiping (something else) off. ⬥ Please wipe the
table off. There’s water on it.
wipe something up† 1. to clean something up by wiping.
⬥ Please wipe that spilled milk up. ⬥ Jim wiped up the
spill. 2. to clean something dirty by wiping. ⬥ The floor
was sticky so I wiped it up.
wire something in† to send something into a central point
by telegram. ⬥ I can’t mail my story to my editor in time,
so I will have to wire it in.
wire something together to bind the pieces of something
together with wire; to bind things together with wire.
⬥ I wired the car’s exhaust pipe together, hoping to get
a few more miles out of it.
wire something up† 1. to repair or reattach something with
wire, especially something electrical. ⬥ I will wire this
light fixture up and it will work like new. 2. to attach
something to a high place with wire. ⬥ We wired the
satellite dish up to the side of the chimney.
wire something up
239
wish someone or something away† to wish that someone or
something would go away. ⬥ You can’t just wish him
away. You’ll have to ask him to leave! ⬥ Don’t try to wish
away the difficulties of your life.
wolf something down† Fig. to eat something very rapidly
and in very large pieces. (As a wolf might eat.) ⬥ Liz
would never wolf down her food.
work oneself up to allow oneself to become emotionally
upset. ⬥ Don’t work yourself up over Sally. She’s not
worth it.
work out 1. [for something] to turn out all right in the
end. ⬥ Don’t worry. Everything will work out. 2. [for
someone] to do a program of exercise. ⬥ I work out at
least twice a week.
work someone or something over† to give someone or
something a thorough examination or treatment. ⬥
The doctor really worked me over but couldn’t find anywish someone or something away
240
wolf something down
thing wrong. ⬥ They worked over the patient but found
nothing.
work someone over† 1. to threaten, intimidate, or beat
someone. ⬥ Walt threatened to work Sam over. ⬥ Max
had worked over Sam, and Sam knew that this was no
idle threat. 2. to give someone’s body a thorough examination or treatment. ⬥ The doctors worked her over to
the tune of $1,500, but they couldn’t find anything wrong
with her.
work someone up† to get someone ready for something,
especially medical treatment. (See also work oneself
up.) ⬥ The staff worked up three patients for surgery
that morning. ⬥ The doctor told the nurse to work Mr.
Franklin up for surgery.
work something down† to lower or reduce something,
especially an amount of money. ⬥ Over a few months,
they worked the price down, and the house soon was sold.
work something off† 1. Lit. to get rid of anger, anxiety, or
energy by doing physical activity. ⬥ I was so mad!
I went out and played basketball to work my anger off.
2. Fig. to pay off a debt through work rather than by
money. ⬥ I had no money so I had to work the bill off
by washing dishes.
work something out† (with someone) to come to an agreement with someone; to figure out with someone a way
to do something. ⬥ I think we can work this out with
you so that all of us are satisfied. ⬥ I will work out something with Karen.
work something over† to rework something. ⬥ He saved
the play by working the second act over. ⬥ Would you
work over this report and see if you can improve it?
work something over
241
work something up† to prepare something, perhaps on
short notice. ⬥ There are some special clients coming in
this weekend. We need to make a presentation. Do you
think you can work something up by then?
work things out to improve one’s state gradually by solving a series of problems. ⬥ If we sit down and talk this
over, I am sure we can work things out.
wrap something up† to complete work on something; to
bring something to an end. ⬥ I will wrap the job up this
morning. I’ll call you when I finish.
wring something out† to squeeze or twist something dry
of liquid. ⬥ He wrung the rag out and wiped up more
of the spilled milk.
wrinkle something up† to make something get wrinkles
and creases. ⬥ I love the way you wrinkle your nose up.
⬥ Don’t wrinkle up your jacket.
wrinkle up [for something] to draw up in wrinkles; [for
something] to become wrinkled. ⬥ His nose wrinkled
up as he smelled the burning pie.
write someone in† (on something) to write the name of
someone in a special place on a ballot, indicating a vote
for the person. (Done when the person’s name is not
already printed on the ballot.) ⬥ Please write my name
in on the ballot.
write someone or something off† to drop someone or something from consideration. ⬥ I wrote off that piece of
swampy land as worthless. It can’t be used for anything.
write someone or something up† to write an article about
someone or something. ⬥ I wrote up a local business
and sent the story to a magazine, but they didn’t buy the
story.
work something up
242
write something down† to make a note of something; to
record something in writing. ⬥ Please write this down.
write something off† to absorb a debt or a loss in accounting. ⬥ The bill couldn’t be collected, so we had to write
it off. ⬥ The bill was too large, and we couldn’t write off
the amount. We decided to sue.
write something off† (on one’s taxes) to deduct something from one’s income taxes. ⬥ Can I write this off
on my income taxes? ⬥ I’ll write off this trip on my taxes.
write something out† 1. to spell or write a number or an
abbreviation. ⬥ Please write out all abbreviations, such
as Doctor for Dr. 2. to put thoughts into writing, rather
than keeping them in memory. ⬥ Let me write it out.
Then I won’t forget it.
write something up† to prepare a bill, order, or statement.
⬥ Please write the order up and send me a copy.
write something up
243
X someone or something out† to mark out something printed
or in writing, with Xs. ⬥ Sally X’d the incorrect information out. ⬥ Sally X’d out the incorrect information. ⬥
You should X Tom out. He’s not coming.
X’d out 1. eliminated; crossed-out. ⬥ But the Babbits are
X’d out. ⬥ Put the X’d out Babbits back where they were.
2. Sl. killed. (Underworld.) ⬥ Mr. Big wanted Wilbur
X’d out. ⬥ He wanted Sam to see that all these punks
were X’d out.
244
X
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
yank someone around Sl. to harass someone; to give
someone a hard time. ⬥ Listen, I don’t mean to yank you
around all the time, but we have to have the drawings by
Monday. ⬥ Please stop yanking me around.
yank someone or something apart† 1. to pull, tear, or rip
someone or something to pieces. ⬥ Please don’t yank
the book apart! ⬥ He threatened to yank his opponent
apart. 2. to separate people or things. ⬥ The teacher
yanked them apart.
yank something off† to pull or jerk off something, such as
a piece of clothing. ⬥ She yanked her jacket off.
yank something up† to pull or jerk something up. ⬥ He
yanked up his pants and threw on his shirt.
245
Y
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use.
zero in (on someone or something) to aim directly at someone or something. ⬥ The television camera zeroed in on
the little boy scratching his head. ⬥ The commercial
zeroed in on the glass of cola.
zip something on† to put on a piece of clothing and zip it
up. ⬥ She zipped her jumper on and headed toward the
door.
zip something up† 1. to close a zipper. ⬥ You should zip
that zipper up. ⬥ You should zip up that zipper. 2. to
close a garment by zipping a zipper closed. ⬥ You had
better zip your jacket up. ⬥ You had better zip up your
jacket. 3. Sl. to close one’s mouth. (Fig. on W.) ⬥ Zip
your mouth up, Fred!
zone something off† to create a special regulatory zone in
an area. ⬥ The council zoned part of the land off for a
park.
zoom along to move along very rapidly. ⬥ The bus
zoomed along rapidly all night long.
zoom off to leave in a hurry. ⬥ Sorry, I have to zoom off.
zoom up to drive or pull up to a place. ⬥ A car zoomed
up, and seven kids got out.
246
Z
Copyright © 2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Click here for terms of use. 